"library"	"collection"	"category"	"year"	"title"	"author"	"journal"	"book_title"	"editor"	"abstract"	"volume"	"issue"	"pages"	"publisher"	"place"	"institution"	"doi"	"url"	"note"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2011"	"Des semences en partage : Construction sociale et identitaire d'un collectif paysan autour de pratiques semencières alternatives"	"Demeulenaere, Elise ; Bonneuil, Christophe"	"Techniques & Culture"	NA	NA	"Cet article se penche sur une dynamique portée par des producteurs en France, qui cherchent à réhabiliter la sélection à la ferme à partir de variétés anciennes. Notre travail vise à analyser les éléments qui soudent la communauté de pratiques constituée autour des dénommées « semences paysannes ».Dans un premier temps, nous rendons compte des ressorts matériels et idéels qui poussent des producteurs de blé à se lancer dans la recherche de variétés anciennes et dans le réapprentissage de techniques de sélection. Pour ces agriculteurs alternatifs cultivant le plus souvent sous le label Agriculture Biologique, les variétés anciennes offrent d?abord des possibilités techniques (une meilleure adaptation à leurs conditions de production). Elles représentent aussi un levier politique (reconquérir une autonomie par rapport à l?industrie semencière) et un positionnement ontologique (construire une relation de compagnonnage avec les plantes). À partir de la création du Réseau Semences Paysannes en 2003, qui met en relation ces personnes jusqu?alors isolées, les semences deviennent aussi les vecteurs d?un réseau de sociabilités privilégiées.De l?étude du réseau de circulation des semences ressort un fort rejet de la centralisation de l?activité de sélection : « la semence, ça regarde tout le monde ». Dans le même temps, l?économie morale des échanges de semences révèle que tout le monde ne peut pas rentrer dans ce collectif : les nouveaux entrants sont sélectionnés sur leur capacité à se mettre à l?écoute de ces variétés, dans un renversement des épreuves où l?humain est testé par la plante, et non pas l?inverse. En tant qu?objet qui circule et évolue de ferme en ferme, les semences constituent un objet intermédiaire, qui à la fois coordonne l?action collective et incarne les résultats de cette action. Parce qu?elles portent l?empreinte de ceux qui les ont travaillées, ces semences contribuent à resserrer le réseau, en l?inscrivant dans un tissu sans couture mêlant intimement les histoires des hommes et des blés. La pratique commune de la sélection à la ferme, matérialisée par la circulation physique des semences paysannes, constitue un acte performatif par lequel ces producteurs éprouvent le sentiment d?appartenir à un monde « paysan » construit en rupture avec la figure moderne de l?exploitant agricole.This article focuses on a network of farmers in France, who aim to re-establish on-farm seed production and plant breeding from heirloom vareties. Our study aims to analyse the elements which concretely bind the community of practice formed around what they literally call ?peasant seeds? (semences paysannes). The following points are addressed in turn: individual motives (technical, political, ethical or spiritual) which push farmers into rejecting the purchase at the cooperative of certified modern variety seeds; the characteristics of the seed exchange network; and finally, the forms of sociability that emerge from seed sharing within this network. The sharing of breeding practices as well as the exchange of ?peasant seeds? forms an operative act, through which producers share the sentiment of belonging to a ?peasant? community (communauté paysanne), built by breaking with modern industrial farming."	"57"	"2"	"202–221"	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	"pubid: J6OZcwVsj5AC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2011"	"Earthworm indicators as tools for soil monitoring, characterization and risk assessment. An example from the national Bioindicator programme (France)"	"Pérès, Guénola ; Vandenbulcke, Franck ; Guernion, Muriel ; Hedde, Mickaël ; Beguiristain, Thierry ; Douay, Francis ; Houot, Sabine ; Piron, Denis ; Richard, Antoine ; Bispo, Antonio ; Grand, Cécile ; Galsomies, Laurence ; Cluzeau, Daniel"	"Pedobiologia"	NA	NA	"Considering the limited number of bioindicators available to assess soil quality, a national research programme was set up in France to develop such indicators (2006-2012), the \" Bioindicator\" programme. This programme tested 47 biological parameters (i.e. microorganisms, fauna, flora) including earthworms, in several sites differing in terms of land use, contamination type - PAHs or metals - and pollution levels. The present study proposes some study objectives for bioindicator approaches, based on the earthworm results from the programme. Therefore, different earthworm descriptors were tested at the community level (e.g. abundance, biomass, species and functional structures, and ecological traits) as well as the organism level (i.e. measuring the metallothionein coding gene expression level in earthworms). The present results, obtained from the programme's spring 2009 sampling campaign, discriminated among the different descriptors and showed that earthworm and endogeic abundance as well as the individual weight of endogeics seem to be good indicators in non-contaminated (cultivated) sites, while the ecological structure, namely the proportion of anecic vs. endogeic species, and the proportion of non-vulnerable species should be used as indicators of contaminated soils. Furthermore, the first results obtained for Lumbricus terrestris and L. rubellus rubellus are encouraging as they show that metallothionein expression increases in metal-contaminated soils. The relevance of these descriptors, which have to be considered in study objectives, requires the analysis of 2010 results. © 2011 Elsevier GmbH."	"54"	"SUPPL."	"S77–S87"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.pedobi.2011.09.015"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.pedobi.2011.09.015"	"pubid: YGhAHpnIhDoC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2012"	"The organic seed regulations framework in Europe-current status and recommendations for future development"	"Döring, Thomas F. ; Bocci, Riccardo ; Hitchings, Roger ; Howlett, Sally ; Lammerts van Bueren, Edith T. ; Pautasso, Marco ; Raaijmakers, Maaike ; Rey, Frederic ; Stubsgaard, Anke ; Weinhappel, Manfred ; Wilbois, Klaus P. ; Winkler, Louisa R. ; Wolfe, Martin S."	"Organic Agriculture"	NA	NA	"Abstract Organic agriculture regulations, in particular European regulation EC 889/2008, prescribe the use of organically produced seed. For many cultivated plants, however, organic seed is often not available. This is mainly because investment in organic plant ..."	"2"	"3-4"	"173–183"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1007/s13165-012-0034-7"	NA	"pubid: kQqwFFzsCTwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2012"	"Functional traits of soil invertebrates as indicators for exposure to soil disturbance"	"Hedde, Mickaël ; van Oort, Folkert ; Lamy, Isabelle"	"Environmental Pollution"	NA	NA	"We tested a trait-based approach to link a soil disturbance to changes in invertebrate communities. Soils and macro-invertebrates were sampled in sandy soils contaminated by long-term wastewater irrigation, adding notably organic matter and trace metals (TM). We hypothesized that functional traits of invertebrates depict ways of exposure and that exposure routes relate to specific TM pools. Geophages and soft-body invertebrates were chosen to inform on exposure by ingestion or contact, respectively. Trait-based indices depicted more accurately effects of pollution than community density and diversity did. Exposure by ingestion had more deleterious effects than by contact. Both types of exposed invertebrates were influenced by TM, but geophages mainly responded to changes in soil organic matter contents. The trait-based approach requires to be applied in various conditions to uncorrelate specific TM impacts from those of other environmental factors. © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	"164"	NA	"59–65"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.envpol.2012.01.017"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.envpol.2012.01.017"	"pubid: ynsZFq2pu0MC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2012"	"Challenges in the conservation and sustainable use of genetic resources"	"Pautasso, Marco"	"Biology Letters"	NA	NA	"The meeting on 'Genetic Resources in the Face of New Environmental, Economic and Social Challenges' held in Montpellier (France) from 20-22 September 2011 brought together about 200 participants active in research and management of the genetic diversity of plant, animal, fungal and microbial species. Attendees had the rare opportunity to hear about agronomy, botany, microbiology, mycology, the social sciences and zoology in the same conference. The research teams presented the results of about 50 projects funded by the French Foundation for Research on Biodiversity to preserve genetic diversity carried out in Africa, Asia, Europe and the Americas. These projects aimed to better understand and manage genetic resources in a rapidly changing world (e.g. structural changes in the agricultural industry, the need for climate change mitigation and adaptation, the challenge of achieving food security despite the growing world population and changing dietary habits, the opportunities provided by the many new molecular biology tools, the problems caused by widespread scientific budget cuts). The meeting also hosted some roundtables open to all participants which provided a forum to establish a much needed dialogue between policy-makers, managers and researchers. © 2011 The Royal Society."	"8"	"3"	"321–323"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1098/rsbl.2011.0984"	NA	"pubid: 654Jc7Ppz2kC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2012"	"Publication growth in biological sub-fields: Patterns, predictability and sustainability"	"Pautasso, Marco"	"Sustainability"	NA	NA	"Biologists are producing ever-increasing quantities of papers. The question arises of whether current rates of increase in scientific outputs are sustainable in the long term. I studied this issue using publication data from the Web of Science (1991–2010) for 18 biological sub-fields. In the majority of cases, an exponential regression explains more variation than a linear one in the number of papers published each year as a function of publication year. Exponential growth in publication numbers is clearly not sustainable. About 75% of the variation in publication growth among biological sub-fields over the two studied decades can be predicted by publication data from the first six years. ̊trendy fields such as structural biology, neuroscience and biomaterials cannot be expected to carry on growing at the current pace, because in a few decades they would produce more papers than the whole of biology combined. Synthetic and systems biology are problematic from the point of view of knowledge dissemination, because in these fields more than 80% of existing papers have been published over the last five years. ̊evidence presented here casts a shadow on how sustainable the recent increase in scientific publications can be in the long term."	"4"	"12"	"3234–3247"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3390/su4123234"	NA	"pubid: xlVdBZVQT58C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"Ecological traits and environmental affinity explain Red Sea fish introduction into the Mediterranean"	"Belmaker, Jonathan ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Kulbicki, Michel"	"Global Change Biology"	NA	NA	"Alien species are considered one of the prime threats to biodiversity, driving major changes in ecosystem structure and function. Identifying the traits associated with alien introduction has been largely restricted to comparing indigenous and alien species or comparing alien species that differ in abundance or impact. However, a more complete understanding may emerge when the entire pool of potential alien species is used as a control, information that is rarely available. In the eastern Mediterranean, the marine environment is undergoing an unparalleled species composition transformation, as a flood of aliens have entered from the Red Sea following the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869. In this study, we compile data on species traits, geographical distribution, and environmental affinity of the entire pool of reef-associated fish species in the Red Sea and more generally across the Indo- Pacific. We use this extensive data to identify the prime characteristics separating Red Sea species that have become alien in the Mediterranean from those that have not. We find that alien species occupy a larger range of environments in their native ranges, explaining their ability to colonize the seasonal Mediterranean. Red Sea species that naturally experience high maximum temperatures in their native range have a high probability of becoming alien. Thus, contrary to predictions of an accelerating number of aliens following increased water temperatures, hotter summers in this region may prevent the establishment of many alien species. We further find that ecological trait diversity of alien species is substantially more evenly spaced and more divergent than random samples from the pool of Red Sea species, pointing at additional processes, such as competition, promoting ecological diversity among alien species. We use these results to provide a first quantitative ranking of the potential of Red Sea species to become established in the eastern Mediterranean. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	"19"	"5"	"1373–1382"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/gcb.12132"	NA	"pubid: SgM-ki2adj0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"Biogeographic, historical and environmental influences on the taxonomic and functional structure of Atlantic reef fish assemblages"	"Bender, Mariana G. ; Pie, Marcio R. ; Rezende, Enrico L. ; Mouillot, David ; Floeter, Sergio R."	"Global Ecology and Biogeography"	NA	NA	"Aim To disentangle how historic, biogeographic and environmental factors have shaped the composition of different reef fish assemblages, we analysed assemblage structure from a taxonomic (proportions of species from different families) and functional perspective (diet and body size). Location Atlantic Ocean. Methods The distributions of 1629 fish species were compiled for 31 locations across the Atlantic Ocean (39°66′ N, 27°50′ S). These locations provide a richness gradient ranging from 54 species in St Paul's Rocks to 474 in Cuba. We used cluster analyses to assess how historical and biogeographic factors have shaped the taxonomic and functional structure (i.e. the distribution of species within families, diet and body size groups) of assemblages. We then employed a constrained analysis of principal coordinates (CAP) to test the relative influence of the distance from the biodiversity centre in the Atlantic, sea surface temperature, isolation, coral species richness and area, and coastal length on the observed patterns of assemblage structure. Results The taxonomic and functional structure of reef fish assemblages across the Atlantic exhibits a biogeographic fingerprint, with a marked discrimination between species-rich biogenic reefs (concentrated primarily in the Caribbean and composed of small species feeding on invertebrates) and poorer peripheral regions dominated by larger species with more diverse diets. The first CAP axis explains 87% of body size distribution in assemblages, showing that the effects of sea surface temperature and coral richness and those of isolation are antagonistic and can be embedded into a single dimension. Environmental factors, such as temperature and habitat complexity, explain the disproportionate number of small species in the Caribbean, whereas in the remaining regions the predominance of large-bodied fish increases with isolation due to high dispersal ability. Main conclusions We found that historical events, which have shaped the biogeography of reef fishes, and environmental characteristics (coral reefs versus periphery) have both played a role in structuring the taxonomic and functional components of Atlantic fish assemblages."	"22"	"11"	"1173–1182"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/geb.12099"	NA	"pubid: ZqLB7dQ1iF4C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"The role of ecology in the geographical separation of blood parasites infecting an insular bird"	"Cornuault, Josselin ; Khimoun, Aurélie ; Harrigan, Ryan J. ; Bourgeois, Yann X. C. ; Milá, Borja ; Thébaud, Christophe ; Heeb, Philipp"	"Journal of Biogeography"	NA	NA	"Aim Niche modelling is increasingly used to predict species' geographical distributions or to infer the evolutionary or ecological processes that constrain them, but relatively few studies have examined the ecological processes governing the distributions of parasites. Among such processes, niche divergence is frequently invoked to explain species range variation. Here, we test whether the geographical distributions of two lineages of Leucocytozoon (Haemosporida) avian parasites are linked to climatic conditions and whether niche divergence can explain their geographical separation. Location Réunion, Mascarene archipelago, south-western Indian Ocean. Methods Leucocytozoon prevalence data were obtained by PCR screening of avian blood samples. Prevalence data and 20 environmental layers were used to build species distribution models (SDMs). SDMs were built by averaging the predictions of five different models: random forests (RF), generalized linear models (GLM), generalized additive models (GAM), multivariate adaptive regression splines (MARS) and support vector machines (SVM). Niche identity and background tests were used to test for a role of niche divergence in explaining parasite distributions. Results The geographical ranges of the two lineages of Leucocytozoon under study showed little overlap. Species distribution modelling suggested that niche divergence may explain the spatial variation observed in Leucocytozoon distribution, implying that the geographical separation of parasites is linked to environmental conditions. The variables that best explained parasite distribution were all related to precipitation patterns. Main conclusions As precipitation cannot directly affect endosymbiotic Leucocytozoon parasites, we suggest that the geographical separation of Leucocytozoon lineages is the result of an underlying geographical structure in the dipteran vectors that transmit these parasites. This illustrates the need to consider the ecology of vectors when predicting the distribution of vector-borne parasites. Our study also shows that different parasite lineages, contained within broadly defined parasitic taxa, may have very different ecologies, and that these differences should be taken into account when attempting to understand the ecological determinants of parasite distribution and disease emergence."	"40"	"7"	"1313–1323"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/jbi.12098"	NA	"pubid: RJujIP1NYNUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"Timing and number of colonizations but not diversification rates affect diversity patterns in hemosporidian lineages on a remote oceanic archipelago"	"Cornuault, Josselin ; Warren, Ben H. ; Bertrand, Joris A. M. ; Milá, Borja ; Thébaud, Christophe ; Heeb, Philipp"	"The American Naturalist"	NA	NA	"Parasite diversity on remote oceanic archipelagos is determined by the number and timing of colonizations and by in situ diversification rate. In this study, we compare intra-archipelago diversity of two hemosporidian parasite genera, Plasmodium and Leucocytozoon, infecting birds of the Mascarene archipelago. Despite the generally higher vagility of Plasmodium parasites, we report a diversity of Plasmodium cytochrome b haplotypes in the archipelago much lower than that of Leucocytozoon. Using phylogenetic data, we find that this difference in diversity is consistent with differences in the timing and number of colonizations, while rates of diversification do not vary significantly between the two genera. The prominence of immigration history in explaining current diversity patterns highlights the importance of historical contingencies in driving disparate biogeographic patterns in potentially harmful blood parasites infecting island birds."	"182"	"6"	"820–833"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1086/673724"	NA	"pubid: eIKNFFVQvJAC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"Responses of soil macroinvertebrate communities to Miscanthus cropping in different trace metal contaminated soils"	"Hedde, Mickaël ; van Oort, Folkert ; Boudon, Estelle ; Abonnel, Fabien ; Lamy, Isabelle"	"Biomass and Bioenergy"	NA	NA	"Nowadays, the influence of biomass plantations in polluted soils as a remediation strategy has mainly been considered in the view of phytoextraction, but little of soil biodiversity. Our objective was to assess the impact of Miscanthus×. giganteus plantations on soil macroinvertebrates in trace metal contaminated soils. We hypothesized (1) that miscanthus plantations host more numerous and diverse communities than comparable annual crop soils and (2) that functional traits permit to decrypt the biological strategies underlying invertebrate community response. We selected fields on sandy and loamy-clay soils contaminated either by urban wastewater or atmospheric deposition, respectively. Our results showed that in comparison to annual cropping systems, miscanthus plantation enhanced higher densities and diversity of soil invertebrates but not of ground-dwelling invertebrates. Miscanthus cropping led to an increase in the proportion of resident, detritivores and rhizophages species, and a trend was revealed for larger invertebrates. Thus, the use of a trait-based approach provided fine opportunities to elucidate invertebrate responses to land use changes in contaminated areas. © 2013 Elsevier Ltd."	"55"	NA	"122–129"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.biombioe.2013.01.016"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.biombioe.2013.01.016"	"pubid: Ei5r6KrKXVQC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"Dynamics of soil fauna after plantation of perennial energy crops on polluted soils"	"Hedde, Mickaël ; van Oort, Folkert ; Renouf, Eloïse ; Thénard, Jodie ; Lamy, Isabelle"	"Applied Soil Ecology"	NA	NA	"Growing demand for alternative energy sources has led to an increased production of biomass crops. In order to limit the use of fertile agricultural land for producing bioenergy, low quality agricultural land, as well as degraded or drastically disturbed soils have been proposed for the cropping of bioenergy cultivars. Our work aimed at assessing the dynamics of soil invertebrate diversity after plantation of perennial energy crops on metal polluted soils. The results were compared with invertebrate diversity dynamics in soils of other plots, representative either for the dominant land occupancies in the study area, or for unpolluted soil situations. We investigated taxonomic, compositional and functional dimensions of diversity in soil- and surface-dwelling communities. Changes in land use from annual crops to perennial energy crops led to a higher number of individuals in soil. No or few changes in taxonomic richness were recorded with an increasing age of energy cropping. Regarding functional diversity, the proportions of resident invertebrates tended to vary with the age of energy cropping, but neither the trophic composition nor the body spectra were modified. Our findings highlighted an increase of soil carrying capacity after perennial energy crop plantation on metal polluted soils, but effects on invertebrate diversity were limited. © 2013."	"66"	NA	"29–39"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.apsoil.2013.01.012"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apsoil.2013.01.012"	"pubid: s2G-WRnXBicC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"Global biogeography of reef fishes: A hierarchical quantitative delineation of regions"	"Kulbicki, Michel ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Bellwood, David R. ; Arias-González, Jesus Ernesto ; Chabanet, Pascale ; Floeter, Sergio R. ; Friedlander, Alan M. ; McPherson, Jana ; Myers, Robert E. ; Vigliola, Laurent ; Mouillot, David"	"PLoS ONE"	NA	NA	"Delineating regions is an important first step in understanding the evolution and biogeography of faunas. However, quantitative approaches are often limited at a global scale, particularly in the marine realm. Reef fishes are the most diversified group of marine fishes, and compared to most other phyla, their taxonomy and geographical distributions are relatively well known. Based on 169 checklists spread across all tropical oceans, the present work aims to quantitatively delineate biogeographical entities for reef fishes at a global scale. Four different classifications were used to account for uncertainty related to species identification and the quality of checklists. The four classifications delivered converging results, with biogeographical entities that can be hierarchically delineated into realms, regions and provinces. All classifications indicated that the Indo-Pacific has a weak internal structure, with a high similarity from east to west. In contrast, the Atlantic and the Eastern Tropical Pacific were more strongly structured, which may be related to the higher levels of endemism in these two realms. The \"Coral Triangle\", an area of the Indo-Pacific which contains the highest species diversity for reef fishes, was not clearly delineated by its species composition. Our results show a global concordance with recent works based upon endemism, environmental factors, expert knowledge, or their combination. Our quantitative delineation of biogeographical entities, however, tests the robustness of the results and yields easily replicated patterns. The similarity between our results and those from other phyla, such as corals, suggests that our approach may be of broad utility in describing and understanding global marine biodiversity patterns."	"8"	"12"	"e81847"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1371/journal.pone.0081847"	NA	"pubid: bbjcffOLshcC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"Adult and larval traits as determinants of geographic range size among tropical reef fishes"	"Luiz, O. J. ; Allen, A. P. ; Robertson, D. R. ; Floeter, Sergio R. ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Vigliola, Laurent ; Becheler, R. ; Madin, J. S."	"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America"	NA	NA	"Most marine organisms disperse via ocean currents as larvae, so it is often assumed that larval-stage duration is the primary determinant of geographic range size. However, empirical tests of this relationship have yielded mixed results, and alternative hypotheses have rarely been considered. Here we assess the relative influence of adult and larval-traits on geographic range size using a global dataset encompassing 590 species of tropical reef fishes in 47 families, the largest compilation of such data to date for any marine group. We analyze this database using linear mixed-effect models to control for phylogeny and geographical limits on range size. Our analysis indicates that three adult traits likely to affect the capacity of new colonizers to survive and establish reproductive populations (body size, schooling behavior, and nocturnal activity) are equal or better predictors of geographic range size than pelagic larval duration. We conclude that adult life-history traits that affect the postdispersal persistence of new populations are primary determinants of successful range extension and, consequently, of geographic range size among tropical reef fishes."	"110"	"41"	"16498–16502"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1073/pnas.1304074110"	NA	"pubid: 4tNoA7Af41QC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"Recovery trends in marine mammal populations"	"Magera, Anna M. ; Mills Flemming, Joanna E. ; Kaschner, Kristin ; Christensen, Line B. ; Lotze, Heike K."	"PLoS ONE"	NA	NA	"Marine mammals have greatly benefitted from a shift from resource exploitation towards conservation. Often lauded as symbols of conservation success, some marine mammal populations have shown remarkable recoveries after severe depletions. Others have remained at low abundance levels, continued to decline, or become extinct or extirpated. Here we provide a quantitative assessment of (1) publicly available population-level abundance data for marine mammals worldwide, (2) abundance trends and recovery status, and (3) historic population decline and recent recovery. We compiled 182 population abundance time series for 47 species and identified major data gaps. In order to compare across the largest possible set of time series with varying data quality, quantity and frequency, we considered an increase in population abundance as evidence of recovery. Using robust log-linear regression over three generations, we were able to classify abundance trends for 92 spatially non-overlapping populations as Significantly Increasing (42%), Significantly Decreasing (10%), Non-Significant Change (28%) and Unknown (20%). Our results were comparable to IUCN classifications for equivalent species. Among different groupings, pinnipeds and other marine mammals (sirenians, polar bears and otters) showed the highest proportion of recovering populations, likely benefiting from relatively fast life histories and nearshore habitats that provided visibility and protective management measures. Recovery was less frequent among cetaceans, but more common in coastal than offshore populations. For marine mammals with available historical abundance estimates (n = 47), larger historical population declines were associated with low or variable recent recoveries so far. Overall, our results show that many formerly depleted marine mammal populations are recovering. However, data-deficient populations and those with decreasing and non-significant trends require attention. In particular, increased study of populations with major data gaps, including offshore small cetaceans, cryptic species, and marine mammals in low latitudes and developing nations, is needed to better understand the status of marine mammal populations worldwide."	"8"	"10"	"e77908"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1371/journal.pone.0077908"	NA	"pubid: gnsKu8c89wgC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"Rare species support vulnerable functions in high-diversity ecosystems"	"Mouillot, David ; Bellwood, David R. ; Baraloto, Christopher ; Chave, Jérôme ; Galzin, Rene ; Harmelin-Vivien, Mireille ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Lavergne, Sébastien ; Lavorel, Sandra ; Mouquet, Nicolas ; Paine, C. E. Timothy ; Renaud, Julien ; Thuiller, Wilfried"	"PLoS Biology"	NA	NA	"Around the world, the human-induced collapses of populations and species have triggered a sixth mass extinction crisis, with rare species often being the first to disappear. Although the role of species diversity in the maintenance of ecosystem processes has been widely investigated, the role of rare species remains controversial. A critical issue is whether common species insure against the loss of functions supported by rare species. This issue is even more critical in species-rich ecosystems where high functional redundancy among species is likely and where it is thus often assumed that ecosystem functioning is buffered against species loss. Here, using extensive datasets of species occurrences and functional traits from three highly diverse ecosystems (846 coral reef fishes, 2,979 alpine plants, and 662 tropical trees), we demonstrate that the most distinct combinations of traits are supported predominantly by rare species both in terms of local abundance and regional occupancy. Moreover, species that have low functional redundancy and are likely to support the most vulnerable functions, with no other species carrying similar combinations of traits, are rarer than expected by chance in all three ecosystems. For instance, 63% and 98% of fish species that are likely to support highly vulnerable functions in coral reef ecosystems are locally and regionally rare, respectively. For alpine plants, 32% and 89% of such species are locally and regionally rare, respectively. Remarkably, 47% of fish species and 55% of tropical tree species that are likely to support highly vulnerable functions have only one individual per sample on average. Our results emphasize the importance of rare species conservation, even in highly diverse ecosystems, which are thought to exhibit high functional redundancy. Rare species offer more than aesthetic, cultural, or taxonomic diversity value; they disproportionately increase the potential breadth of functions provided by ecosystems across spatial scales. As such, they are likely to insure against future uncertainty arising from climate change and the ever-increasing anthropogenic pressures on ecosystems. Our results call for a more detailed understanding of the role of rarity and functional vulnerability in ecosystem functioning."	"11"	"5"	"e1001569"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1371/journal.pbio.1001569"	NA	"pubid: w0odbtu79TwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"The challenge of delineating biogeographical regions: Nestedness matters for Indo-Pacific coral reef fishes"	"Mouillot, David ; de Bortoli, Julien ; Leprieur, Fabien ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Bellwood, David R."	"Journal of Biogeography"	NA	NA	"Aim The delineation of regions is a critical procedure in biogeography, but there is still no consensus about the best approach. Traditionally, a compositional dissimilarity index and a clustering algorithm are used to partition locations into regions. However, the choice of index and algorithm may have a profound impact on the final result, particularly when locations display different levels of species richness and when they are nested within each other. Our objective was to estimate the influence of species nestedness among locations on the delineation of biogeographical regions. Location As a case study, we used coral reef fishes (families Chaetodontidae, Pomacentridae and Labridae) from the Indo-Pacific, where a large richness gradient extends, often as a series of nested assemblages, from the species-rich Indo-Australian Archipelago (Coral Triangle) to species-poor peripheral locations. Methods We used the turnover and nestedness components of the Sørensen and Jaccard dissimilarity indices to estimate the effect of nestedness on the delineation of biogeographical regions. In addition, we compared the results with those obtained using a parsimony analysis of endemicity (PAE). Results Low Mantel correlation values revealed that the PAE method assembled locations in a very different way than methods based on dissimilarity indices for Indo-Pacific coral reef fishes. We also found that nestedness mattered when delineating biogeographical units because, for both the Sørensen and the Jaccard indices, reef fish assemblages were grouped differently depending on whether we used the turnover component of each index or the complete index, including the nestedness component. The turnover component ignored variation in species richness attributable to differences in habitat area between locations, and permitted a delineation based solely on species replacement. Main conclusions We demonstrate that the choice of the component used to measure dissimilarity between species assemblages is critical, because it may strongly influence regional delineations, at least for Indo-Pacific coral reef fishes. We conclude that the two components of the dissimilarity indices can reveal complementary insights into the role that history may have played in shaping extant patterns of biodiversity."	"40"	"12"	"2228–2237"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/jbi.12194"	NA	"pubid: k8toY4Q4EC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"Global patterns and predictors of tropical reef fish species richness"	"Parravicini, Valeriano ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Bellwood, David R. ; Friedlander, Alan M. ; Arias-González, Jesus Ernesto ; Chabanet, Pascale ; Floeter, Sergio R. ; Myers, Robert E. ; Vigliola, Laurent ; D'agata, Stéphanie ; Mouillot, David"	"Ecography"	NA	NA	"In the marine realm, the tropics host an extraordinary diversity of taxa but the drivers underlying the global distribution of marine organisms are still under scrutiny and we still lack an accurate global predictive model. Using a spatial database for 6336 tropical reef fishes, we attempted to predict species richness according to geometric, biogeographical and environmental explanatory variables. In particular, we aimed to evaluate and disentangle the predictive performances of temperature, habitat area, connectivity, mid-domain effect and biogeographical region on reef fish species richness. We used boosted regression trees, a flexible machine-learning technique, to build our predictive model and structural equation modeling to test for potential ‘mediation effects' among predictors. Our model proved to be accurate, explaining 80% of the total deviance in fish richness using a cross-validated procedure. Coral reef area and biogeographical region were the primary predictors of reef fish species richness, followed by coast length, connectivity, mid-domain effect and sea surface temperature, with interactions between the region and other predictors. Important indirect effects of water temperature on reef fish richness, mediated by coral reef area, were also identified. The relationship between environmental predictors and species richness varied markedly among biogeographical regions. Our analysis revealed that a few easily accessible variables can accurately predict reef fish species richness. They also highlight concerns regarding ongoing environmental declines, with region-specific responses to variation in environmental conditions predicting a variable response to anthropogenic impacts."	"36"	"12"	"1254–1262"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/j.1600-0587.2013.00291.x"	NA	"pubid: e0LTWoPxLYMC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"Ten simple rules for writing a literature review"	"Pautasso, Marco"	"PLoS Computational Biology"	NA	NA	"Literature reviews are in great demand in most scientific fields. Their need stems from the ever-increasing output of scientific publications [1]. For example, compared to 1991, in 2008 three, eight, and forty times more papers were indexed in Web of Science on malaria, obesity, and biodiversity, respectively [2]. Given such mountains of papers, scientists cannot be expected to examine in detail every single new paper relevant to their interests [3]. Thus, it is both advantageous and necessary to rely on regular summaries of the recent literature. Although recognition for scientists mainly comes from primary research, timely literature reviews can lead to new synthetic insights and are often widely read [4]. For such summaries to be useful, however, they need to be compiled in a professional way [5]. When starting from scratch, reviewing the literature can require a titanic amount of work. That is why researchers who have spent their career working on a certain research issue are in a perfect position to review that literature. Some graduate schools are now offering courses in reviewing the literature, given that most research students start their project by producing an overview of what has already been done on their research issue [6]. However, it is likely that most scientists have not thought in detail about how to approach and carry out a literature review. Reviewing the literature requires the ability to juggle multiple tasks, from finding and evaluating relevant material to synthesising information from various sources, from critical thinking to paraphrasing, evaluating, and citation skills [7]. In this contribution, I share ten simple rules I learned working on about 25 literature reviews as a PhD and postdoctoral student. Ideas and insights also come from discussions with coauthors and colleagues, as well as feedback from reviewers and editors."	"9"	"7"	"e1003149"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003149"	"https://dx.plos.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003149"	"pubid: qYOp8iumCsAC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"Forest ecosystems and global change: The case study of Insubria"	"Pautasso, Marco"	"Annali di Botanica"	NA	NA	"forest ecosystems face multiple challenges due to climate change, invasive species, urbanization, land use change and the interactions between these global change drivers. this review provides an overview of such challenges for the case study of insubria. insubria is a region on the southern side of the european alps, famous for its stunning lakes (e.g., como, Garda, Lugano, Maggiore), blessed by a relatively mild and humid climate, and shaped by the geologic fault line between the african and european plates. Global change impacts in insubria pose a threat to its biodiversity and chestnut woodlands, particularly through modified winter forest fire regimes. insubric biodiversity conservation, in turn, is essential to counteract the effects of climate change. sustainable management of insubric forests is made more difficult by rural abandonment, air pollution and invasive exotic species. there is a need to develop reliable long-term bio-indicators and to predict the shift of insubric species, ecosystems and treelines due to rapid climate changes. insubric studies on forests and global change call for enhanced international collaboration in forest management and research. interdisciplinary approaches are needed to move from studies of single global change drivers to experiments, scenarios and models taking into account their combination and our responses to global change."	"3"	NA	"1–29"	NA	NA	NA	"10.4462/annbotrm-10092"	"https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84939182662%7B&%7DpartnerID=40%7B&%7Dmd5=296a1dc1298c0d8363514043ad885117%0Ahttps://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84939182662%257B%255C%257B%257D%257B%255C&%257D%257B%255C%257D%257DpartnerI"	"pubid: wgKq3sYidysC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"European ash (Fraxinus excelsior) dieback: A conservation biology challenge"	"Pautasso, Marco ; Aas, Gregor ; Queloz, Valentin ; Holdenrieder, Ottmar"	"Biological Conservation"	NA	NA	"Common ash (Fraxinus excelsior) is a keystone tree species throughout temperate Europe whose future existence is threatened by an emerging invasive fungal disease. Ash dieback, which first appeared in Poland in the 1990s, has rapidly spread to most eastern, central and northern European countries. The causal agent of the disease, the ascomycete Hymenoscyphus pseudoalbidus (anamorph Chalara fraxinea), was recently described as a new species. Given that the disease lethally affects ash trees of all age classes, and that ash tree mortality levels are high, F. excelsior and the many organisms dependent on ash trees are under threat. Based on a literature survey, we provide an overview of the present knowledge on ash dieback, identify practical recommendations and point out research needs. The observation of relatively resistant individual ash trees (although at very low frequency) calls for a rapid germplasm collection effort to establish a breeding program for resistance or tolerance to the disease. Ash trees that appear to be tolerant to the pathogen should not be felled, unless they pose an unacceptable risk to people's security. Given that the pathogen does not form propagules on wood, and given the importance of deadwood for biodiversity conservation, dead and dying ash trees should be left in the forest. Landscape pathology and genetic tools can be used to reconstruct the dispersal pathways of H. pseudoalbidus and to identify environmental features associated with variation in disease severity, so as to better predict the further development of the epidemic. Observations on differences in susceptibility of various ash species are needed to locate the geographic origin of the pathogen and to identify Fraxinus species which might be used for resistance breeding or even replacement of F. excelsior. Conservation biologists, landscape managers, restoration ecologists, social scientists and tree geneticists need to engage with forest pathologists and the various stakeholders throughout the distributional range of F. excelsior so as to tackle this pressing conservation challenge. © 2012 Elsevier Ltd."	"158"	NA	"37–49"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.biocon.2012.08.026"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.biocon.2012.08.026"	"pubid: qhW0HyKmSusC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"Dieback of European ash: Let's avoid this kind of opportunities for nature conservation"	"Pautasso, Marco ; Aas, Gregor ; Queloz, Valentin ; Holdenrieder, Ottmar"	"Biological Conservation"	NA	NA	"Common ash (Fraxinus excelsior) and its associated biodiversity are now threatened by an emerging fungal disease caused by the ascomycete Hymenoscyphus pseudoalbidus. In their commentary on our review of this issue (Pautasso et al., 2013), Heilmann-Clau-sen et al. (in press) doubt that the current dieback of European ash is an unequivocal threat to biodiversity, because positive effects of ash dieback (if managed wisely) are likely to counterbalance or outweigh negative effects. We agree that wise management of this plant health issue is essential and have indeed called for collabora-tion among conservation biologists, forest pathologists, landscape managers, restoration ecologists, social scientists, tree geneticists and the various stakeholders (Pautasso et al., 2013). Given that in-ter-and trans-disciplinarity are easier said than done, we still think that the negative effects on biodiversity of ash dieback should not be underestimated. Heilmann-Clausen et al. (in press) point out that bryophytes, fungi, insects and lichens dependent on ash trees may manage to survive on other tree hosts even if ash disappears. Whilst this is possible, we fear that this might not be so for all species, and that some ash-dependent species may disappear if ash tree populations are reduced below a critical density (Jönsson and Thor, 2012). We believe that we would be well advised to adopt the precautionary principle, given that there is still an incomplete knowledge of the biodiversity specifically associated with common ash, although some figures are starting to appear (Sansford, 2013). Moreover, ecosystem health is not just a metaphor. Exacerbated tree mortal-ity can lead to the loss of ecosystem services normally taken for granted, e.g. climate regulation and carbon sequestration. Furthermore, Heilmann-Clausen et al. (in press) argue that ”massive dieback of trees in response to naturally occurring distur-bances – including insect or fungal outbreaks – is a natural phe-nomenon in northern temperate forest ecosystems.” We regret that the current mortality of Fraxinus excelsior trees of all ages through much of the distributional range of this keystone species is not a natural event, as the pathogen was introduced from Asia. Ash has not just economic importance because of its use by the wood industry, but also because of cultural values, which go back to ancient times. On top of this, Emerald ash borer (another legacy of increased trade from Asia, which is leading to the demise of North American ash trees, with consequences for human health due to the stronger heat waves in the absence of ash trees, Donovan et al., 2013) has been reported from the Moscow region, and is thus likely to make it harder to breed for tolerance to European ash dieback. Heilmann-Clausen et al. (in press) report little evidence of biodiversity losses resulting from past tree dieback events. We believe that lack of evidence is not evidence of absence (Waller, 2013). The ecosystem impacts of outbreaks of exotic tree patho-gens have been documented, e.g., for Phytophthora ramorum (Paut-asso, 2013a). Ash tree mortality may temporarily boost the presence of forest glades, but may also favour the invasion of exo-tic tree species such as Ailanthus altissima, Prunus serotina, and Robinia pseudoacacia. In addition, ash mostly occurs as a mixed tree species and the space becoming available due to ash mortality will be promptly occupied by neighbouring tree species which cast more shade than ash trees. Heilmann-Clausen et al. (in press) also remark that slowly dying weakened trees and dead wood are important habitats. We agree that these features are an essential resource for saproxylic organ-isms, and that ash dieback is currently a major producer of dead-wood in affected European forests. But, after this surge, production of ash deadwood will markedly decline due to the lack of recruit-ment, because the disease is affecting also saplings and young trees and given the general lack of resistance of ash populations. Finally, Heilmann-Clausen et al. (in press) are in favour of leav-ing woodland affected by ash dieback to follow its natural course, without replanting with productive, disease-resistant tree species, including introduced conifers. We agree with this suggestion, and note that introduced conifers are generally not disease-resistant, but are also affected by a plethora of pests and pathogens, which can contribute to diversifying artificial, dark, and uniform exotic tree monocultures. In conclusion, whilst some positive side-effects of ash dieback may be present temporarily, this and other emerging exotic tree diseases still pose a challenge for native biodiversity conservation. European woodland may partly withstand the loss of ash due to the presence of other tree species, but (1) ash dieback is happening in concomitance with other threats to biodiversity (e.g., climate change, industrial forestry and agriculture, chronic pollution and urban sprawl), (2) Europe is already impoverished in its tree biodi-versity compared to North America and Asia for climatic and his-torical reasons, and (3) there is a risk that similar dieback events might affect other tree species in the near future if the unprece-dented levels of trade in plants for planting, bonsai, and other plant commodities carry on. We agree that more imaginative ways to re-spond to exotic tree diseases are needed (Pautasso, 2013b). Ulti-mately, ash dieback could lead to benefits from a nature conservation point of view if it provides the tipping point for an improvement of plant biosecurity approaches (Tree Health and Plant Biosecurity Expert Taskforce, 2013). References Donovan, G.H., Butry, D.T., Michael, Y.L., Prestemon, J.P., Liebhold, A.M., Gatziolis, D., Mao, M.Y., 2013. The relationship between trees and human health. Evidence from the spread of the Emerald Ash Borer. Am. J. Prevent. Med. 44, 139–145. 0006-3207 -see front matter Ó."	"167"	NA	"452–453"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.biocon.2013.07.020"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.biocon.2013.07.020"	"pubid: E2bRg1zSkIsC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"Seed exchange networks for agrobiodiversity conservation. A review"	"Pautasso, Marco ; Aistara, Guntra A. ; Barnaud, Adeline ; Caillon, Sophie ; Clouvel, Pascal ; Coomes, Oliver T. ; Delêtre, Marc ; Demeulenaere, Elise ; de Santis, Paola ; Döring, Thomas F. ; Eloy, Ludivine ; Emperaire, Laure ; Garine, Eric ; Goldringer, Isabelle ; Jarvis, Devra ; Joly, Hélène I. ; Leclerc, Christian ; Louafi, Selim ; Martin, Pierre ; Massol, François ; McGuire, Shawn J. ; McKey, Doyle ; Padoch, Christine ; Soler, Clelia ; Thomas, Mathieu ; Tramontini, Sara"	"Agronomy for Sustainable Development"	NA	NA	"The circulation of seed among farmers is central to agrobiodiversity conservation and dynamics. Agrobiodiversity, the diversity of agricultural systems from genes to varieties and crop species, from farming methods to landscape composition, is part of humanity's cultural heritage. Whereas agrobiodiversity conservation has received much attention from researchers and policy makers over the last decades, the methods available to study the role of seed exchange networks in preserving crop biodiversity have only recently begun to be considered. In this overview, we present key concepts, methods, and challenges to better understand seed exchange networks so as to improve the chances that traditional crop varieties (landraces) will be preserved and used sustainably around the world. The available literature suggests that there is insufficient knowledge about the social, cultural, and methodological dimensions of environmental change, including how seed exchange networks will cope with changes in climates, socio-economic factors, and family structures that have supported seed exchange systems to date. Methods available to study the role of seed exchange networks in the preservation and adaptation of crop specific and genetic diversity range from meta-analysis to modelling, from participatory approaches to the development of bio-indicators, from genetic to biogeographical studies, from anthropological and ethnographic research to the use of network theory. We advocate a diversity of approaches, so as to foster the creation of robust and policy-relevant knowledge. Open challenges in the study of the role of seed exchange networks in biodiversity conservation include the development of methods to (i) enhance farmers' participation to decision-making in agro-ecosystems, (ii) integrate ex situ and in situ approaches, (iii) achieve interdisciplinary research collaboration between social and natural scientists, and (iv) use network analysis as a conceptual framework to bridge boundaries among researchers, farmers and policy makers, as well as other stakeholders. © 2012 INRA and Springer-Verlag, France."	"33"	"1"	"151–175"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1007/s13593-012-0089-6"	NA	"pubid: 8O4vDxvErlEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"thesis"	"2013"	"Effects of land use transformation on microarthropod community structure in Mediterranean area"	"Santorufo, Lucia"	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	"https://hal.univ-lorraine.fr/tel-01749861"	"pubid: BFa5h04uPMwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2013"	"Correspondence between genetic structure and farmers' taxonomy: A case study from dry-season sorghum landraces in northern Cameroon"	"Soler, Clelia ; Saidou, Abdoul Aziz ; Vi Cao Hamadou, Tuong ; Pautasso, Marco ; Wencélius, Jean ; Joly, Hélène H. I."	"Plant Genetic Resources: Characterization and Utilization"	NA	NA	"The study of the genetic structure of cultivated plant populations maintained by farmers is of great importance for evolutionary and conservation biology. Such studies help understand the bases of crop evolution and conservation in relation to farmers' practices. In this study, we assessed the genetic structure underlying landrace diversity of dry-season sorghum. This crop constitutes a historical model of innovation developed by farmers to extend sorghum cultivation to the dry season. Two types of dry-season sorghum are cultivated. We aimed to assess the link between farmers' taxonomy and molecular genetic structure. We collected both types of dry-season sorghum in two villages of northern Cameroon which represented 20 landraces. These landraces were genotyped using eight polymorphic microsatellite markers. This study compared two clustering methods: a Bayesian method (STRUCTURE) which is based on explicit genetic assumptions and the discriminant analysis of principal component method. The latter, more recently proposed, is based on the combination of principal component analysis and discriminant analysis. We noticed a general congruence between these two methods. We also used both methods to infer the genetic structure of our sample. Our results showed strong genetic structuring of the landraces, with K = 14 genetic clusters. We then analysed the fit between farmers' taxonomy and genetic structure. The data suggested that each type and each landrace corresponds to a given genetic entity. This pattern was robust across both villages, despite differences in cultural practices."	"11"	"1"	"36–49"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1017/S1479262112000342"	NA	"pubid: T₀gP6tLVL0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Why should we care about temporary rivers?"	"Acuña, V. ; Datry, Thibault ; Marshall, J. ; Barceló, D. ; Dahm, Clifford N. ; Ginebreda, A. ; McGregor, G. ; Sabater, S. ; Tockner, Klement ; Palmer, Margaret A."	"Science"	NA	NA	NA	"343"	"March"	"1080–1082"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1126/science.1246666"	NA	"pubid: f2PrUAIjnKUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Actually existing tomatoes: Politics of memory, variety, and empire in Latvian struggles over seeds"	"Aistara, Guntra A."	"Focaal"	NA	NA	"In March 2012, a small farm in Latvia with a collection of over 200 tomato varieties was charged with the illegal sale of seeds not included in the European Union's Common Catalogue. The farm's collection includes traditional Latvian varieties that have never been officially registered, Western varieties imported illegally during the Soviet years, and Russian varieties that came into use during the Soviet years and are now defended by Latvian gardeners as \"traditionally grown\" and representing the taste of their childhoods. The debate highlighted the continuing struggle over Latvia's geopolitical positioning between Russia and the European Union and control over seeds as a tactic of empire. I explore the cultural memories embedded in the contested tomato seeds and how they contribute to an intertwined imaginary of the Latvian landscape idyll with a Soviet sociality. I argue that the innovative resolution to this conflict represents a process of transculturation in a contact zone between empires (Pratt 1992). © Stichting Focaal and Berghahn Books."	"2014"	"69"	"12–27"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3167/fcl.2014.690102"	NA	"pubid: 3WNXLiBY60kC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Scaling metabolism from individuals to reef-fish communities at broad spatial scales"	"Barneche, Diego R. ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Floeter, Sergio R. ; Friedlander, Alan M. ; Maina, J. ; Allen, A. P."	"Ecology Letters"	NA	NA	"Abstract Fishes contribute substantially to energy and nutrient fluxes in reef ecosystems, but quantifying these roles is challenging. Here, we do so by synthesising a large compilation of fish metabolic-rate data with a comprehensive database on reef-fish community abundance and biomass. Individual-level analyses support predictions of Metabolic Theory after accounting for significant family-level variation, and indicate that some tropical reef fishes may already be experiencing thermal regimes at or near their temperature optima. Community-level analyses indicate that total estimated respiratory fluxes of reef-fish communities increase on average ∼2-fold from 22 to 28 °C. Comparisons of estimated fluxes among trophic groups highlight striking differences in resource use by communities in different regions, perhaps partly reflecting distinct evolutionary histories, and support the hypothesis that piscivores receive substantial energy subsidies from outside reefs. Our study demonstrates one approach to synthesising individual- and community-level data to establish broad-scale trends in contributions of biota to ecosystem dynamics."	"17"	"9"	"1067–1076"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ele.12309"	"https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/ele.12309"	"pubid: e9bUPLv0EjcC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Extremely reduced dispersal and gene flow in an island bird"	"Bertrand, Joris A. M. ; Bourgeois, Yann X. C. ; Delahaie, Boris ; Duval, T. ; García-Jiménez, R. ; Cornuault, Josselin ; Heeb, Philipp ; Milá, Borja ; Pujol, B. ; Thébaud, Christophe"	"Heredity"	NA	NA	"The Réunion grey white-eye, Zosterops borbonicus, a passerine bird endemic to Réunion Island in the Mascarene archipelago, represents an extreme case of microgeographical plumage colour variation in birds, with four distinct colour forms occupying different parts of this small island (2512 km(2)). To understand whether such population differentiation may reflect low levels of dispersal and gene flow at a very small spatial scale, we examined population structure and gene flow by analysing variation at 11 microsatellite loci among four geographically close localities (¡26 km apart) sampled within the distribution range of one of the colour forms, the brown-headed brown form. Our results revealed levels of genetic differentiation that are exceptionally high for birds at such a small spatial scale. This strong population structure appears to reflect low levels of historical and contemporary gene flow among populations, unless very close geographically (¡10 km). Thus, we suggest that the Réunion grey white-eye shows an extremely reduced propensity to disperse, which is likely to be related to behavioural processes."	"112"	"2"	"190–196"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/hdy.2013.91"	NA	"pubid: R6EwkKsDylYC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Conservation of ephemeral streams and their ecosystem services: What are we missing?"	"Boulton, Andrew J."	"Aquatic Conservation: Marine and Freshwater Ecosystems"	NA	NA	NA	"24"	"6"	"733–738"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1002/aqc.2537"	NA	"pubid: aCwMkEyfDy8C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Human-mediated loss of phylogenetic and functional diversity in coral reef fishes"	"D'agata, Stéphanie ; Mouillot, David ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Andréfouët, Serge ; Bellwood, David R. ; Cinner, Joshua E. ; Cowman, Peter F. ; Kronen, Mecki ; Pinca, Silvia ; Vigliola, Laurent"	"Current Biology"	NA	NA	"Summary Beyond the loss of species richness [1-3], human activities may also deplete the breadth of evolutionary history (phylogenetic diversity) and the diversity of roles (functional diversity) carried out by species within communities, two overlooked components of biodiversity. Both are, however, essential to sustain ecosystem functioning and the associated provision of ecosystem services, particularly under fluctuating environmental conditions [1-7]. We quantified the effect of human activities on the taxonomic, phylogenetic, and functional diversity of fish communities in coral reefs, while teasing apart the influence of biogeography and habitat along a gradient of human pressure across the Pacific Ocean. We detected nonlinear relationships with significant breaking points in the impact of human population density on phylogenetic and functional diversity of parrotfishes, at 25 and 15 inhabitants/km2, respectively, while parrotfish species richness decreased linearly along the same population gradient. Over the whole range, species richness decreased by 11.7%, while phylogenetic and functional diversity dropped by 35.8% and 46.6%, respectively. Our results call for caution when using species richness as a benchmark for measuring the status of ecosystems since it appears to be less responsive to variation in human population densities than its phylogenetic and functional counterparts, potentially imperiling the functioning of coral reef ecosystems. © 2014 Elsevier Ltd."	"24"	"5"	"555–560"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.cub.2014.01.049"	NA	"pubid: 6IBXqrN-DEwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Intermittent rivers: A challenge for freshwater ecology"	"Datry, Thibault ; Larned, Scott T. ; Tockner, Klement"	"BioScience"	NA	NA	"For many decades, river research has been focused on perennial rivers. Intermittent river research has a shorter history, and recent studies suggest that alternating dry and wet conditions alter virtually all biotic communities and biogeochemical processes in these rivers. Intermittent rivers constitute more than half of the length of the global river network and are increasing in number and length in response to climate change, land- use alteration, and water abstraction. Our views of the roles that rivers play in maintaining biodiversity and controlling material fluxes will change substantially when intermittent rivers are fully integrated into regional and global analyses. Concepts, questions, and methodologies from lotic, lentic, and terrestrial ecology need to be integrated and applied to intermittent rivers to increase our knowledge and effective management of these rivers."	"64"	"3"	"229–235"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1093/biosci/bit027"	NA	"pubid: UKB2i6g6GNMC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Les semences entre critique et expérience : Les ressorts pratiques d'une contestation paysanne"	"Demeulenaere, Elise"	"Revue d'Études en Agriculture et Environnement"	NA	NA	NA	"94"	"04"	"421–442"	NA	NA	NA	"10.4074/s1966960713014033"	NA	"pubid: CC3C2HR4nz8C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"A political ontology of seeds: The transformative frictions of a farmers' movement in Europe"	"Demeulenaere, Elise"	"Focaal"	NA	NA	"This article follows the trajectory of a French farmers' movement that contests the seed production and regulation system set in place during agricultural modernization. It focuses on the creativity of the movement, which ranges from semantic innovations (such as peasant seeds) to the reinvention of onfarm breeding practices based on new scientific paradigms, and includes new alliances with the social movements defending the commons. The trajectory of the movement is shaped by its encounters-with scientists, other international seed contestations, and other social movements-and by the productive frictions they create. This in-depth reframing of the activities connected to seeds contributes to building a counternarrative about farmers and seeds that reopens spaces for contestation. In this counternarrative, peasant seeds play a central and subversive role in the sense that they question the ontological assumptions of present seed laws. © Stichting Focaal and Berghahn Books."	"2014"	"69"	"45–61"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3167/fcl.2014.690104"	NA	"pubid: 8rLWgkbgOXQC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Landscape heterogeneity as an ecological filter of species traits"	"Duflot, Rémi ; Georges, Romain ; Ernoult, Aude ; Aviron, Stéphanie ; Burel, Françoise"	"Acta Oecologica"	NA	NA	"Landscape heterogeneity is a major driver of biodiversity in agricultural areas and represents an important parameter in conservation strategies. However, most landscape ecology studies measure gamma diversity of a single habitat type, despite the assessment of multiple habitats at a landscape scale being more appropriate. This study aimed to determine the effects of landscape composition and spatial configuration on life-history trait distribution in carabid beetle and herbaceous plant communities. Here, we assessed the gamma diversity of carabid beetles and plants by sampling three dominant habitats (woody habitats, grasslands and crops) across 20 landscapes in western France. RLQ and Fourth Corner three-table analyses were used to assess the association of dispersal, phenology, reproduction and trophic level traits with landscape characteristics. Landscape composition and configuration were both significant in explaining functional composition. Carabid beetles and plants showed similar response regarding phenology, i.e. open landscapes were associated with earlier breeding species. Carabid beetle dispersal traits exhibited the strongest relationship with landscape structure; for instance, large and apterous species preferentially inhabited woody landscapes, whereas small and macropterous species preferentially inhabited open landscapes. Heavy seeded plant species dominated in intensified agricultural landscapes (high % crops), possibly due to the removal of weeds (which are usually lightweight seeded species). The results of this study emphasise the roles of landscape composition and configuration as ecological filters and the importance of preserving a range of landscape types to maintain functional biodiversity at regional scales. © 2014 ."	"56"	NA	"19–26"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.actao.2014.01.004"	NA	"pubid: Q3-QASNKTMEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"The open data debate: The need for accessible and shared data in forest science"	"Fady, Bruno ; Benard, A. ; Pichot, C. ; Peiffer, M. ; Leban, L. M. ; Dreyer, E."	"Annals of Forest Science"	NA	NA	NA	"71"	"5"	"523–525"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1007/s13595-014-0375-3"	NA	"pubid: j7XjBeKFbTsC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Overview of habitat history in subtropical oceanic island summit ecosystems"	"Fernández-Palacios, José María ; Otto, Rüdiger ; Thébaud, Christophe ; Price, Jonathan"	"Arctic, Antarctic, and Alpine Research"	NA	NA	NA	"46"	"4"	"801–809"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1657/1938-4246-46.4.801"	NA	"pubid: rJyh6hJnyfgC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Global to local genetic diversity indicators of evolutionary potential in tree species within and outside forests"	"Graudal, Lars ; Aravanopoulos, Filippos ; Bennadji, Zohra ; Changtragoon, Suchitra ; Fady, Bruno ; Kjær, Erik D. ; Loo, Judy ; Ramamonjisoa, Lolona ; Vendramin, Giovanni G."	"Forest Ecology and Management"	NA	NA	"There is a general trend of biodiversity loss at global, regional, national and local levels. To monitor this trend, international policy processes have created a wealth of indicators over the last two decades. However, genetic diversity indicators are regrettably absent from comprehensive bio-monitoring schemes. Here, we provide a review and an assessment of the different attempts made to provide such indicators for tree genetic diversity from the global level down to the level of the management unit. So far, no generally accepted indicators have been provided as international standards, nor tested for their possible use in practice. We suggest that indicators for monitoring genetic diversity and dynamics should be based on ecological and demographic surrogates of adaptive diversity as well as genetic markers capable of identifying genetic erosion and gene flow. A comparison of past and present genecological distributions (patterns of genetic variation of key adaptive traits in the ecological space) of selected species is a realistic way of assessing the trend of intra-specific variation, and thus provides a state indicator of tree genetic diversity also able to reflect possible pressures threatening genetic diversity. Revealing benefits of genetic diversity related to ecosystem services is complex, but current trends in plantation performance offer the possibility of an indicator of benefit. Response indicators are generally much easier to define, because recognition and even quantification of, e.g., research, education, breeding, conservation, and regulation actions and programs are relatively straightforward. Only state indicators can reveal genetic patterns and processes, which are fundamental for maintaining genetic diversity. Indirect indicators of pressure, benefit, or response should therefore not be used independently of state indicators. A coherent set of indicators covering diversity-productivity-knowledge-management based on the genecological approach is proposed for application on appropriate groups of tree species in the wild and in cultivation worldwide. These indicators realistically reflect the state, trends and potentials of the world's tree genetic resources to support sustainable growth. The state of the genetic diversity will be based on trends in population distributions and diversity patterns for selected species. The productivity of the genetic resource of trees in current use will reflect the possible potential of mobilizing the resource further. Trends in knowledge will underpin the potential capacity for development of the resource and current management of the genetic resource itself will reveal how well we are actually doing and where improvements are required."	"333"	NA	"35–51"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.foreco.2014.05.002"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.foreco.2014.05.002"	"pubid: o9ULDYDKYbIC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Fourteen years of evidence for positive effects of conservation agriculture and organic farming on soil life"	"Henneron, Ludovic ; Bernard, Laetitia ; Hedde, Mickaël ; Pelosi, Céline ; Villenave, Cécile ; Chenu, Claire ; Bertrand, Michel ; Girardin, Cyril ; Blanchart, Eric"	"Agronomy for Sustainable Development"	NA	NA	"Conventional agriculture strongly alters soil quality due to industrial practices that often have negative effects on soil life. Alternative systems such as conservation agriculture and organic farming could restore better conditions for soil organisms. Improving soil life should in turn improve soil quality and farming sustainability. Here, we have compared for the first time the long-term effects of conservation agriculture, organic farming, and conventional agriculture on major soil organisms such as microbes, nematofauna, and macrofauna. We have also analyzed functional groups. Soils were sampled at the 14-year-old experimental site of La Cage, near Versailles, France. The microbial community was analyzed using molecular biology techniques. Nematofauna and macrofauna were analyzed and classified into functional groups. Our results show that both conservation and organic systems increased the abundance and biomass of all soil organisms, except predaceous nematodes. For example, macrofauna increased from 100 to 2,500 %, nematodes from 100 to 700 %, and microorganisms from 30 to 70 %. Conservation agriculture showed a higher overall improvement than organic farming. Conservation agriculture increased the number of many organisms such as bacteria, fungi, anecic earthworms, and phytophagous and rhizophagous arthropods. Organic farming improved mainly the bacterial pathway of the soil food web and endogeic and anecic earthworms. Overall, our study shows that long-term, no-tillage, and cover crops are better for soil biota than periodic legume green manures, pesticides, and mineral fertilizers."	"35"	"1"	"169–181"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1007/s13593-014-0215-8"	NA	"pubid: cOfwuRB03ygC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Functional over-redundancy and high functional vulnerability in global fish faunas on tropical reefs"	"Mouillot, David ; Villéger, Sébastien ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Arias-González, Jesus Ernesto ; Bender, Mariana G. ; Chabanet, Pascale ; Floeter, Sergio R. ; Friedlander, Alan M. ; Vigliola, Laurent ; Bellwood, David R."	"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America"	NA	NA	"When tropical systems lose species, they are often assumed to be buffered against declines in functional diversity by the ability of the species-rich biota to display high functional redundancy: i.e., a high number of species performing similar functions. We tested this hypothesis using a ninefold richness gradient in global fish faunas on tropical reefs encompassing 6,316 species distributed among 646 functional entities (FEs): i.e., unique combinations of functional traits. We found that the highest functional redundancy is located in the Central Indo-Pacific with a mean of 7.9 species per FE. However, this overall level of redundancy is disproportionately packed into few FEs, a pattern termed functional over-redundancy (FOR). For instance, the most speciose FE in the Central Indo-Pacific contains 222 species (out of 3,689) whereas 38% of FEs (180 out of 468) have no functional insurance with only one species. Surprisingly, the level of FOR is consistent across the six fish faunas, meaning that, whatever the richness, over a third of the species may still be in overrepresented FEs whereas more than one third of the FEs are left without insurance, these levels all being significantly higher than expected by chance. Thus, our study shows that, even in high-diversity systems, such as tropical reefs, functional diversity remains highly vulnerable to species loss. Although further investigations are needed to specifically address the influence of redundant vs. vulnerable FEs on ecosystem functioning, our results suggest that the promised benefits from tropical biodiversity may not be as strong as previously thought."	"111"	"38"	"13757–13762"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1073/pnas.1317625111"	"http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25225388%0Ahttp://www.pubmedcentral.nih.gov/articlerender.fcgi?artid=PMC4183327"	"pubid: Yw6v6SrDvuUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Global mismatch between species richness and vulnerability of reef fish assemblages"	"Parravicini, Valeriano ; Villéger, Sébastien ; McClanahan, Tim R. ; Arias-González, Jesus Ernesto ; Bellwood, David R. ; Belmaker, Jonathan ; Chabanet, Pascale ; Floeter, Sergio R. ; Friedlander, Alan M. ; Guilhaumon, François ; Vigliola, Laurent ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Mouillot, David"	"Ecology Letters"	NA	NA	"The impact of anthropogenic activity on ecosystems has highlighted the need to move beyond the biogeographical delineation of species richness patterns to understanding the vulnerability of species assemblages, including the functional components that are linked to the processes they support. We developed a decision theory framework to quantitatively assess the global taxonomic and functional vulnerability of fish assemblages on tropical reefs using a combination of sensitivity to species loss, exposure to threats and extent of protection. Fish assemblages with high taxonomic and functional sensitivity are often exposed to threats but are largely missed by the global network of marine protected areas. We found that areas of high species richness spatially mismatch areas of high taxonomic and functional vulnerability. Nevertheless, there is strong spatial match between taxonomic and functional vulnerabilities suggesting a potential win-win conservation-ecosystem service strategy if more protection is set in these locations."	"17"	"9"	"1101–1110"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ele.12316"	NA	"pubid: qbqt7gslDFUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Network simulations to study seed exchange for agrobiodiversity conservation"	"Pautasso, Marco"	"Agronomy for Sustainable Development"	NA	NA	"Crop diversity is essential for sustainable development because diverse crops cope better with disease and climate change. A way to maintain crop diversity is to sustain seed exchange among farmers. Network simulations help in establishing which network properties promote crop diversity conservation. Here, we modelled the likelihood that an introduced crop variety will spread in a seed exchange network. The network model is based on published data on a directed network of barley seed flows in seven villages of Northern Ethiopia. Results show that the number of households that can be reached when introducing a new variety depends on the number of outgoing links of the household that first received the new variety. The distribution of the number of both incoming and outgoing links shows a departure from a normal distribution. This trend is explained by the presence of a minority of highly connected households and of a majority of weakly connected households. For the whole network, there is no significant correlation between the number of incoming and outgoing links of households. The findings explain the common observation that individual farmers do not cultivate all varieties present in a seed system. Absence of reciprocal exchange makes such networks less vulnerable to wholesale displacement of farmer varieties by improved ones."	"35"	"1"	"145–150"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1007/s13593-014-0222-9"	NA	"pubid: 9o6PfxSMcEIC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Network epidemiology and plant trade networks"	"Pautasso, Marco ; Jeger, Mike J."	"AoB PLANTS"	NA	NA	"Models of epidemics in complex networks are improving our predictive understanding of infectious disease outbreaks. Nonetheless, applying network theory to plant pathology is still a challenge. This overview summarizes some key developments in network epidemiology that are likely to facilitate its application in the study and management of plant diseases. Recent surveys have provided much-needed datasets on contact patterns and human mobility in social networks, but plant trade networks are still understudied. Human (and plant) mobility levels across the planet are unprecedented-there is thus much potential in the use of network theory by plant health authorities and researchers. Given the directed and hierarchical nature of plant trade networks, there is a need for plant epidemiologists to further develop models based on undirected and homogeneous networks. More realistic plant health scenarios would also be obtained by developing epidemic models in dynamic, rather than static, networks. For plant diseases spread by the horticultural and ornamental trade, there is the challenge of developing spatio-temporal epidemic simulations integrating network data. The use of network theory in plant epidemiology is a promising avenue and could contribute to anticipating and preventing plant health emergencies such as European ash dieback."	"6"	NA	"plu007"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1093/aobpla/plu007"	NA	"pubid: WGv8Og3F3KgC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Quaternary coral reef refugia preserved fish diversity"	"Pellissier, Loïc ; Leprieur, Fabien ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Cowman, Peter F. ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Litsios, G. ; Olsen, Steffen M. ; Wisz, Mary S. ; Bellwood, David R. ; Mouillot, David"	"Science"	NA	NA	"The most prominent pattern in global marine biogeography is the biodiversity peak in the Indo-Australian Archipelago. Yet the processes that underpin this pattern are still actively debated. By reconstructing global marine paleoenvironments over the past 3 million years on the basis of sediment cores, we assessed the extent to which Quaternary climate fluctuations can explain global variation in current reef fish richness. Comparing global historical coral reef habitat availability with the present-day distribution of 6316 reef fish species, we find that distance from stable coral reef habitats during historical periods of habitat loss explains 62% of the variation in fish richness, outweighing present-day environmental factors. Our results highlight the importance of habitat persistence during periods of climate change for preserving marine biodiversity."	"344"	"6187"	"1016–1019"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1126/science.1249853"	"http://www.sciencemag.org/cgi/doi/10.1126/science.1249853"	"pubid: Lo8V22OuN40C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Reducing tillage in cultivated fields increases earthworm functional diversity"	"Pelosi, Céline ; Pey, Benjamin ; Hedde, Mickaël ; Caro, Gaël ; Capowiez, Yvan ; Guernion, Muriel ; Peigné, J. ; Piron, Denis ; Bertrand, Michel ; Cluzeau, Daniel"	"Applied Soil Ecology"	NA	NA	"Alternative cropping systems such as conservation agriculture have been implemented to limit the harmful effects of intensive conventional cropping systems. Conservation agriculture is known to modify the structural diversity of earthworm communities, but no data have been reported so far on their functional diversity. Structural and functional indices of community were used to study the effects of different soil tillage intensity on earthworm diversity in arable soils.Field data were collected in four agricultural trials across France representing different soiland climatic conditions. Three types of soil tillage were assessed: plowing, superficial tillage and direct seeding. Earthworm abundance, species richness and ecomorphological group abundance were investigated. Seven functional traits, i.e. body length, body mass/length ratio, epithelium type, cocoon diameter, typhlosolis type, carbon preferences and vertical distribution, were selected according to their hypothesized link with mechanisms of tillage impact. Functional diversity indices were then computed. Soil tillage intensity decreased functional diversity and modified the functional trait profile within the earthworm community whereas neither structural diversity (species number) nor abundance changed with tillage intensity. Differences between plowing and direct seeding were significant in each trial, and superficial tillage often showed intermediate trait values. Regarding ecomorphological groups, anecic abundance was positively influenced by a decrease in soil tillage, contrary to epigeic and endogeic earthworms that showed no response. Tillage acts as an environmental filter, and decreasing its intensity caused a lesser convergence of traits and thus higher functional trait diversity. We demonstrated that a trait-based approach better permitted comparisons of community responses across sites than species number or abundance."	"83"	"December"	"79–87"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.apsoil.2013.10.005"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apsoil.2013.10.005"	"pubid: QtA78RmWg5MC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"A thesaurus for soil invertebrate trait-based approaches"	"Pey, Benjamin ; Laporte, Marie-Angélique ; Nahmani, Johanne ; Auclerc, Apolline ; Capowiez, Yvan ; Caro, Gaël ; Cluzeau, Daniel ; Cortet, Jérôme ; Decaëns, Thibaud ; Dubs, Florence ; Joimel, Sophie ; Guernion, Muriel ; Briard, Charlène ; Grumiaux, Fabien ; Laporte, Baptiste ; Pasquet, Alain ; Pelosi, Céline ; Pernin, Céline ; Ponge, Jean-François ; Salmon, Sandrine ; Santorufo, Lucia ; Hedde, Mickaël"	"PLoS ONE"	NA	NA	"Soil invertebrates are known to be much involved in soil behaviour and therefore in the provision of ecosystem services. Functional trait-based approaches are methodologies which can be used to understand soil invertebrates' responses to their environment. They (i) improve the predictions and (ii) are less dependent on space and time. The way traits have been used recently has led to misunderstandings in the integration and interpretation of data. Trait semantics are especially concerned. The aim of this paper is to propose a thesaurus for soil invertebrate trait-based approaches. T-SITA, an Internet platform, is the first initiative to deal with the semantics of traits and ecological preferences for soil invertebrates. It reflects the agreement of a scientific expert community to fix semantic properties (e.g. definition) of approximately 100 traits and ecological preferences. In addition, T-SITA has been successfully linked with a fully operational database of soil invertebrate traits. Such a link enhances data integration and improves the scientific integrity of data."	"9"	"10"	"e108985"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1371/journal.pone.0108985"	NA	"pubid: oH8HCDhqVGsC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Current use of and future needs for soil invertebrate functional traits in community ecology"	"Pey, Benjamin ; Nahmani, Johanne ; Auclerc, Apolline ; Capowiez, Yvan ; Cluzeau, Daniel ; Cortet, Jérôme ; Decaëns, Thibaud ; Deharveng, Louis ; Dubs, Florence ; Joimel, Sophie ; Briard, Charlène ; Grumiaux, Fabien ; Laporte, Marie-Angélique ; Pasquet, Alain ; Pelosi, Céline ; Pernin, Céline ; Ponge, Jean-François ; Salmon, Sandrine ; Santorufo, Lucia ; Hedde, Mickaël"	"Basic and Applied Ecology"	NA	NA	"Soil invertebrates are assumed to play a major role in ecosystem dynamics, since they are involved in soil functioning. Functional traits represent one of the main opportunities to bring new insights into the understanding of soil invertebrate responses to environmental changes. They are properties of individuals which govern their responses to their environment. As no clear conceptual overview of soil invertebrate trait definitions is available, we first stress that previously-described concepts of trait are applicable to soil invertebrate ecology after minor modification, as for instance the inclusion of behavioural traits. A decade of literature on the use of traits for assessing the effects of the environment on soil invertebrates is then reviewed. Trait-based approaches may improve the understanding of soil invertebrate responses to environmental changes as they help to establish relationships between environmental changes and soil invertebrates. Very many of the articles are dedicated to the effect of one kind of stress at limited spatial scales. Underlying mechanisms of assembly rules were sometimes assessed. The patterns described seemed to be similar to those described for other research fields (e.g. plants). The literature suggests that trait-based approaches have not been reliable over eco-regions. Nevertheless, current work gives some insights into which traits might be more useful than others to respond to a particular kind of environmental change. This paper also highlights methodological advantages and drawbacks. First, trait-based approaches provide complementary information to taxonomic ones. However the literature does not allow us to differentiate between trait-based approaches and the use of a priori functional groups. It also reveals methodological shortcomings. For instance, the ambiguity of the trait names can impede data gathering, or the use of traits at a species level, which can hinder scientific interpretation as intra-specific variability is not taken into account and may lead to some biases. To overcome these shortcomings, the last part aims at proposing some solutions and prospects. It concerns notably the development of a trait database and a thesaurus to improve data management. © 2014 Gesellschaft für Ökologie."	"15"	"3"	"194–206"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.baae.2014.03.007"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.baae.2014.03.007"	"pubid: cww₀JKUTDwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Linking species, traits and habitat characteristics of Collembola at European scale"	"Salmon, Sandrine ; Ponge, Jean-François ; Gachet, Sophie ; Deharveng, Louis ; Lefebvre, N. ; Delabrosse, F."	"Soil Biology and Biochemistry"	NA	NA	"Although much work has been done on factors which influence the patterning of species and species trait assemblages in a variety of groups such as plants, vertebrates and invertebrates, few studies have been realized at a broad geographic scale. We analyzed patterns of relationships between species, species trait distribution/assembly, and environmental variables from the west of Europe to Slovakia, Poland and Sweden. We created a database by compiling traits and occurrence data of European collembolan species, using literature and personal field studies embracing a large range of environmental gradients (vertical stratification, habitat closure, humus form, soil acidity and moisture, temperature, rainfall, altitude) over which Collembola are supposed to be distributed. Occurrences of the 58 best-documented species, environmental variables and species traits allowed us to (i) show which environmental variables impact the distribution of the 58 species at broad scale and (ii) document to what extent environmental variables and species trait assemblages are related and which trends could be found in trait/environment relationships. The impact of vertical stratification, habitat closure, humus form, soil acidity, soil moisture, temperature, and to a lesser extent rainfall and altitude on species distribution, firstly revealed by indirect gradient analysis (correspondence analysis, CA), was further shown to be significant by direct gradient analysis (canonical correspondence analysis, CCA). RLQ analyses were performed to find linear combination of variables of table R (environmental variables) and linear combinations of the variables of table Q (species traits) of maximum covariance weighted by species occurrence data contained in table L. RLQ followed by permutation tests showed that all tested environmental variables apparently contributed significantly to the assemblages of the twelve species traits studied. A convergence was observed between traits related to vertical stratification and those related to habitat closure/aperture. Well-developed locomotory organs (furcula, legs), presence of sensorial organs sensitive to air movements and light (e.g. trichobothria and eye spots), spherical body, large body size, pigmentation (UV protection and signaling) and sexual reproduction largely occur in epigeic and open habitats, while most of woodland and edaphic habitats are characterized by short locomotory appendages, small body size, high number of defense organs (pseudocelli), presence of post-antennal organs and parthenogenesis. Climate and especially temperature exert an effect on the assemblage of traits that are mostly present above-ground and in open habitats. The contribution of combinations of some environmental variables to the occurrence of each species trait was tested by linear, logistic or multinomial regression (Generalized Linear Models). Vertical stratification, followed by temperature, played a dominant role in the variation of the twelve studied traits. Relationships between traits and environment tested here shows that it is possible to use some traits as proxies to identify potential ecological preferences or tolerances of invertebrate species. However, a significant part of species distribution remained unexplained, probably partly because some traits, like ecophysiological ones, or traits involved in biotic interactions (e.g. competition) were unavailable. The present work is thus a first step towards the creation of models predicting changes in collembolan communities. Further studies are required to inform ecophysiological traits, in order to complete such models. Moreover the niche width of species will have to be determined. © 2014 Elsevier Ltd."	"75"	NA	"73–85"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.04.002"	NA	"pubid: s1ouQE5r0WUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"An assessment of the influence of the urban environment on collembolan communities in soils using taxonomy- and trait-based approaches"	"Santorufo, Lucia ; Cortet, Jérôme ; Arena, Carmen ; Goudon, Romain ; Rakoto, Alain ; Morel, Jean-Louis ; Maisto, Giulia"	"Applied Soil Ecology"	NA	NA	"In this study we investigated collembolan communities using both taxonomy- and trait-based approaches in order to determine: (1) which soil or leaf litter characteristics are the main agents of species distribution and functional trait distribution in collembolan communities, and (2) which functional traits are more prevalent in species tolerant to urban environments. To investigate this, soil and leaf litter were sampled in the urban area of Naples, Italy and the collembolan community was analyzed using taxonomic and functional approaches. The results indicated that collembolan density was negatively affected by site pollution, and that species richness, diversity and evenness were positively affected by the organic matter content of the soil. Folsomia lawrencei was the most abundant species in sites with high metal contamination and low soil organic matter content, whereas Mesaphorura sp. and Parisotoma notabilis were the most ubiquitous taxa overall. The main agents affecting the frequency of functional traits were metal contamination of soil and litter, soil organic matter content, leaf specific mass and thickness of the litter. The species most tolerant to urban environmental conditions were found to have small body size, jumping motion strategy, sexual reproduction and presence of pigmentation. © 2014 Elsevier B.V."	"78"	NA	"48–56"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.apsoil.2014.02.008"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apsoil.2014.02.008"	"pubid: 1W9tMSvGuwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Sampling season affects conclusions on soil arthropod community structure responses to metal pollution in Mediterranean urban soils"	"Santorufo, Lucia ; van Gestel, Cornelis A. M. ; Maisto, Giulia"	"Geoderma"	NA	NA	"This study aimed to assess if the period of sampling affected conclusions on the responses of arthropod community structure to metal pollution in urban soils in the Mediterranean area. Higher temperature and lower precipitation were detected in autumn than in spring. In both samplings, the most abundant taxa were Acarina and Collembola, although their relative abundances were differently affected by seasonality and metal contamination. The relative abundance of Acarina was higher in autumn and positively related with soil total Cu, whereas Collembola abundance was higher in spring and correlated with water-extractable Cu. Arthropod community was heavily affected by seasonal variations in climatic conditions in high and low polluted soils, showing for the same soil different responses dependent on the sampling season. Sampling time therefore is a fundamental factor when assessing the effects of metal pollution on soil arthropod communities. © 2014 Elsevier B.V."	"226-227"	"1"	"47–53"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.geoderma.2014.02.001"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.geoderma.2014.02.001"	"pubid: j2GSQqY3pL0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Global priorities for marine biodiversity conservation"	"Selig, Elizabeth R. ; Turner, Will R. ; Troëng, Sebastian ; Wallace, Bryan P. ; Halpern, Benjamin S. ; Kaschner, Kristin ; Lascelles, Ben G. ; Carpenter, Kent E. ; Mittermeier, Russell A."	"PLoS ONE"	NA	NA	"In recent decades, many marine populations have experienced major declines in abundance, but we still know little about where management interventions may help protect the highest levels of marine biodiversity. We used modeled spatial distribution data for nearly 12,500 species to quantify global patterns of species richness and two measures of endemism. By combining these data with spatial information on cumulative human impacts, we identified priority areas where marine biodiversity is most and least impacted by human activities, both within Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZs) and Areas Beyond National Jurisdiction (ABNJ). Our analyses highlighted places that are both accepted priorities for marine conservation like the Coral Triangle, as well as less well-known locations in the southwest Indian Ocean, western Pacific Ocean, Arctic and Antarctic Oceans, and within semi-enclosed seas like the Mediterranean and Baltic Seas. Within highly impacted priority areas, climate and fishing were the biggest stressors. Although new priorities may arise as we continue to improve marine species range datasets, results from this work are an essential first step in guiding limited resources to regions where investment could best sustain marine biodiversity."	"9"	"1"	"e82898"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1371/journal.pone.0082898"	NA	"pubid: 4uoR24qA-WYC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Larval dispersal drives trophic structure across Pacific coral reefs"	"Stier, Adrian C. ; Hein, Andrew M. ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Kulbicki, Michel"	"Nature Communications"	NA	NA	"Top predators are a critical part of healthy ecosystems. Yet, these species are often absent from spatially isolated habitats leading to the pervasive view that fragmented ecological communities collapse from the top down. Here we study reef fish from coral reef commu- nities across the Pacific Ocean. Our analysis shows that species richness of reef fish top predators is relatively stable across habitats that vary widely in spatial isolation and total species richness. In contrast, species richness of prey reef fish declines rapidly with increasing isolation. By consequence, species-poor communities from isolated islands have three times as many predator species per prey species as near-shore communities.We develop and test a colonization–extinction model to reveal how larval dispersal patterns shape this ocean-scale gradient in trophic structure."	"5"	NA	"5575–5578"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/ncomms6575"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/ncomms6575"	"pubid: tFzHCjejgA0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"The effects of island ontogeny on species diversity and phylogeny"	"Valente, Luis M. ; Etienne, Rampal S. ; Phillimore, Albert B."	"Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences"	NA	NA	"A major goal of island biogeography is to understand how island communities are assembled over time. However, we know little about the influence of variable area and ecological opportunity on island biotas over geological time-scales. Islands have limited life spans, and it has been posited that insular diversity patterns should rise and fall with an island's ontogeny. The potential of phylogenies to inform us of island ontogenetic stage remains unclear, as we lack a phylogenetic framework that focuses on islands rather than clades. Here, we present a parsimonious island-centric model that integrates phylogeny and ontogeny into island biogeography and can incorporate a negative feedback of diversity on species origination. This framework allows us to generate predic-tions about species richness and phylogenies on islands of different ages. We find that peak richness lags behind peak island area, and that endemic species age increases with island age on volcanic islands. When diversity negatively affects rates of immigration and cladogenesis, our model predicts speciation slowdowns on old islands. Importantly, we find that branching times of in situ radiations can be informative of an island's ontogenetic stage. This novel framework provides a quantitative means of uncovering processes responsible for island biogeography patterns using phylogenies."	"281"	NA	"20133227"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1098/rspb.2013.3227"	"http://rspb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/suppl/2014/04/17/rspb.2013.3227.DC1.h%5Cnhttp://rspb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/281/1784/20133227.full.html#ref-list-1%5Cnhttp://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2013.3227%5Cnhttp://rspb.royalsocietypublishing"	"pubid: v6PuF9mNY3oC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"The emergence and promise of functional biogeography"	"Violle, Cyrille ; Reich, P. B. ; Pacala, S. W. ; Enquist, Brian J. ; Kattge, Jens"	"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America"	NA	NA	"Understanding, modeling, and predicting the impact of global change on ecosystem functioning across biogeographical gradients can benefit from enhanced capacity to represent biota as a continuous distribution of traits. However, this is a challenge for the field of biogeography historically grounded on the species concept. Here we focus on the newly emergent field of functional biogeography: the study of the geographic distribution of trait diversity across organizational levels. We show how functional biogeography bridges species-based biogeography and earth science to provide ideas and tools to help explain gradients in multifaceted diversity (including species, functional, and phylogenetic diversities), predict ecosystem functioning and services worldwide, and infuse regional and global conservation programs with a functional basis. Although much recent progress has been made possible because of the rising of multiple data streams, new developments in ecoinformatics, and new methodological advances, future directions should provide a theoretical and comprehensive framework for the scaling of biotic interactions across trophic levels and its ecological implications."	"111"	"38"	"13690–13696"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1073/pnas.1415442111"	"http://www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/10.1073/pnas.1415442111"	"pubid: qCaWouos7ogC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Dans les sillons de l'alliance : Ethnographie de la circulation des semences de sorgho dans l'Extrême-Nord du Cameroun"	"Wencélius, Jean ; Garine, Eric"	"Les Cahiers d'Outre-Mer"	NA	NA	"Nous proposons dans cet article une analyse des échanges de semences de sorgho pluvial basée sur une ethnographie fine des sources et des pratiques d'approvisionnement par les agriculteurs d'un village masa de l'Extrême-Nord du Cameroun. Le croisement d'un corpus de données sur les acquisitions de semences avec un recensement généalogique met au jour une correspondance étroite entre les aires d'échanges de semences et d'échanges matrimoniaux. Les alliances matrimoniales conclues entre différents clans et groupes ethnolinguistiques participent à forger une unité socio-territoriale qui transcende ces frontières et constitue une aire de circulation intense tant des personnes que des biens. Les semences empruntent des circuits similaires à ceux des femmes et les transferts privilégiés entre affins sont une expression, parmi d'autres, des relations sociales d'échange dans lesquelles ces parents par alliance sont engagés.The aim of this article is to analyze rainy-season sorghum seed flows through an in-depth ethnography of seed supply sources and practices in a Masa village of Northern Cameroon. Cross-referencing datasets concerning farmers' seed acquisitions and genealogical relationships reveals a strong match between the geographical dimensions of both seed and matrimonial exchanges. Marital unions between members of different clans and ethno-linguistic groups result in the forging of a socio-territorial unit which transcends group boundaries and harbors intense flows of people and goods. Seed transfers are channeled through the paths of women's mobility. The frequency of sorghum seed transfers between in-laws represents one of the many expressions of the social relationships of exchange affines are engaged in."	"67"	"265"	"93–116"	NA	NA	NA	"10.4000/com.7082"	"http://com.revues.org/7082"	"pubid: Kv9jytqXTosC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014"	"Prioritizing global marine mammal habitats using density maps in place of range maps"	"Williams, Rob ; Grand, Joanna ; Hooker, Sascha K. ; Buckland, Stephen T. ; Reeves, Randall R. ; Rojas-Bracho, Lorenzo ; Sandilands, Doug ; Kaschner, Kristin"	"Ecography"	NA	NA	"Despite lessons from terrestrial systems, conservation efforts in marine systems continue to focus on identifying priority sites for protection based on high species richness inferred from range maps. Range maps oversimplify spatial variability in animal distributions by assuming uniform distribution within range and de facto giving equal weight to critical and marginal habitats. We used Marxan ver. 2.43 to compare species richness-based systematic reserve network solutions using information about marine mammal range and relative abundance. At a global scale, reserve network solutions were strongly sensitive to model inputs and assumptions. Solutions based on different input data overlapped by a third at most, with agreement as low as 10% in some cases. At a regional scale, species richness was inversely related to density, such that species richness hotspots excluded highest-density areas for all species. Based on these findings, we caution that species-richness estimates derived from range maps and used as input in conservation planning exercises may inadvertently lead to protection of largely marginal habitat."	"37"	"3"	"212–220"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/j.1600-0587.2013.00479.x"	NA	"pubid: 0Kh4an1R61UC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2014-11"	"The convention on biological diversity's ecologically or biologically significant areas: Origins, development, and current status"	"Dunn, Daniel C. ; Ardron, Jeff ; Bax, Nicholas ; Bernal, Patricio ; Cleary, Jesse ; Cresswell, Ian ; Donnelly, Ben ; Dunstan, Piers ; Gjerde, Kristina ; Johnson, David ; Kaschner, Kristin ; Lascelles, Ben G. ; Rice, Jake ; von Nordheim, Henning ; Wood, Louisa ; Halpin, Patrick N."	"Marine Policy"	NA	NA	"In 2008, the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) adopted seven criteria to identify Ecologically or Biologically Significant Areas (EBSAs) “…in need of protection, in open ocean waters and deep sea habitats”. This paper reviews the history of the development of the “EBSA process”, which was originally driven by the commitment to establish marine protected areas in areas beyond national jurisdiction, but which has since broadened to encompass the possibility of informing marine spatial planning and other activities, both within and beyond national jurisdiction. Additionally, the paper summarizes ongoing efforts through CBD regional workshops to describe EBSAs and the development of the EBSA Repository, where information on these areas is to be stored. The overlap between the EBSA criteria and biodiversity criteria suites used by various authorities in areas beyond national jurisdiction is illustrated. The EBSA process has reached a critical juncture, whereby a large percentage of the global ocean has been considered by the regional workshops, but the procedure by which these areas can be incorporated into formal management structures has not yet been fully developed. Emerging difficulties regarding the mandate to describe, identify, endorse, or adopt EBSAs, are discussed."	"49"	NA	"137–145"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/J.MARPOL.2013.12.002"	"https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0308597X13002856?via%3Dihub"	"pubid: 71d7Y1FijdoC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Network impact on persistence in a finite population dynamic diffusion model: Application to an emergent seed exchange network"	"Barbillon, Pierre ; Thomas, Mathieu ; Goldringer, Isabelle ; Hospital, Frédéric ; Robin, Stéphane"	"Journal of Theoretical Biology"	NA	NA	"Dynamic extinction colonisation models (also called contact processes) are widely studied in epidemiology and in metapopulation theory. Contacts are usually assumed to be possible only through a network of connected patches. This network accounts for a spatial landscape or a social organization of interactions. Thanks to social network literature, heterogeneous networks of contacts can be considered. A major issue is to assess the influence of the network in the dynamic model. Most work with this common purpose uses deterministic models or an approximation of a stochastic Extinction-Colonisation model (sEC) which are relevant only for large networks. When working with a limited size network, the induced stochasticity is essential and has to be taken into account in the conclusions. Here, a rigorous framework is proposed for limited size networks and the limitations of the deterministic approximation are exhibited. This framework allows exact computations when the number of patches is small. Otherwise, simulations are used and enhanced by adapted simulation techniques when necessary. A sensitivity analysis was conducted to compare four main topologies of networks in contrasting settings to determine the role of the network. A challenging case was studied in this context: seed exchange of crop species in the Réseau Semences Paysannes (RSP), an emergent French farmers' organisation. A stochastic Extinction-Colonisation model was used to characterize the consequences of substantial changes in terms of RSP's social organization on the ability of the system to maintain crop varieties."	"365"	NA	"365–376"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.jtbi.2014.10.032"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jtbi.2014.10.032"	"pubid: CLhUwle04lcC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"What it takes to invade grassland ecosystems: traits, introduction history and filtering processes"	"Carboni, Marta ; Münkemüller, Tamara ; Lavergne, Sébastien ; Choler, Philippe ; Borgy, Benjamin ; Violle, Cyrille ; Essl, Franz ; Roquet, Cristina ; Munoz, François ; Thuiller, Wilfried"	"Ecology Letters"	NA	NA	"Whether the success of alien species can be explained by their functional or phylogenetic characteristics remains unresolved because of data limitations, scale issues and weak quantifications of success. Using permanent grasslands across France (50 000 vegetation plots, 2000 species, 130 aliens) and building on the Rabinowitz's classification to quantify spread, we showed that phylogenetic and functional similarities to natives were the most important correlates of invasion success compared to intrinsic functional characteristics and introduction history. Results contrasted between spatial scales and components of invasion success. Widespread and common aliens were similar to co‐occurring natives at coarse scales (indicating environmental filtering), but dissimilar at finer scales (indicating local competition). In contrast, regionally widespread but locally rare aliens showed patterns of competitive exclusion already at coarse scale. Quantifying trait differences between aliens and natives and distinguishing the components of invasion success improved our ability to understand and potentially predict alien spread at multiple scales."	"19"	"3"	"219–229"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ele.12556"	"https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/ele.12556"	"pubid: SPgmg5JLkoEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Community assembly on remote islands: A comparison of Hawaiian and Mascarene spiders"	"Casquet, Juliane ; Bourgeois, Yann X. C. ; Cruaud, Corinne ; Gavory, Frédérick ; Gillespie, Rosemary G. ; Thébaud, Christophe"	"Journal of Biogeography"	NA	NA	"Aimcommunities on oceanic islands are assembled through multiple immigration and/or diversification events. In this study, we use a phylogenetic approach to investigate the role of such processes in shaping current patterns of diversity in Tetragnatha spiders from the Mascarene archipelago and to compare these patterns with those found in the Hawaiian archipelago.archipelago, south-western Indian Ocean; Hawaiian archipelago, Pacific Ocean.techniques included phylogeny reconstruction (mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I; histone H3) with and without time calibration, delimitation of species using the general mixed Yule coalescent (GMYC) model, and testing for the presence of gene flow between geographically separated populations using the model of isolation with migration (IMa).current diversity of Tetragnatha on the Mascarenes has arisen through three independent colonization events with no evidence for in situ diversification. This finding is in stark contrast to the pattern observed in Hawaiʻi where two to four independent colonization events have been followed by two massive in situ diversification episodes leading to at least 38 species in total.conclusionsnet rates of immigration by Tetragnatha lineages appear relatively similar in the two archipelagos, in situ diversification in Tetragnatha only occurred in Hawaiʻi, possibly associated with the extreme geographical isolation of this archipelago relative to the Mascarene archipelago. Owing to the greater geographical proximity of the Mascarene archipelago to source pools such as Madagascar, it seems likely that the persistence of gene flow between the source and the islands and/or niche pre-emption by other spider lineages may have reduced opportunities for diversification despite an apparently favourable ecological context."	"42"	"1"	"39–50"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/jbi.12391"	NA	"pubid: aNch6Af-aFkC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Farmer seed networks make a limited contribution to agriculture? Four common misconceptions"	"Coomes, Oliver T. ; McGuire, Shawn J. ; Garine, Eric ; Caillon, Sophie ; McKey, Doyle ; Demeulenaere, Elise ; Jarvis, Devra ; Aistara, Guntra A. ; Barnaud, Adeline ; Clouvel, Pascal ; Emperaire, Laure ; Louafi, Sélim ; Martin, Pierre ; Massol, François ; Pautasso, Marco ; Violon, Chloé ; Wencélius, Jean"	"Food Policy"	NA	NA	"The importance of seed provisioning in food security and nutrition, agricultural development and rural livelihoods, and agrobiodiversity and germplasm conservation is well accepted by policy makers, practitioners and researchers. The role of farmer seed networks is less well understood and yet is central to debates on current issues ranging from seed sovereignty and rights for farmers to GMOs and the conservation of crop germplasm. In this paper we identify four common misconceptions regarding the nature and importance of farmer seed networks today. (1) Farmer seed networks are inefficient for seed dissemination. (2) Farmer seed networks are closed, conservative systems. (3) Farmer seed networks provide ready, egalitarian access to seed. (4) Farmer seed networks are destined to weaken and disappear. We challenge these misconceptions by drawing upon recent research findings and the authors' collective field experience in studying farmer seed systems in Africa, Europe, Latin America and Oceania. Priorities for future research are suggested that would advance our understanding of seed networks and better inform agricultural and food policy."	"56"	NA	"41–50"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.foodpol.2015.07.008"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.foodpol.2015.07.008"	"pubid: xIusEVNJREcC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Morphological and plumage colour variation in the Réunion grey white-eye (Aves: Zosterops borbonicus): Assessing the role of selection"	"Cornuault, Josselin ; Delahaie, Boris ; Bertrand, Joris A. M. ; Bourgeois, Yann X. C. ; Milá, Borja ; Heeb, Philipp ; Thébaud, Christophe"	"Biological Journal of the Linnean Society"	NA	NA	"The Réunion grey white-eye (Zosterops borbonicus), a small passerine endemic to the island of Réunion (Mascarene archipelago), constitutes an extraordinary case of phenotypic variation within a bird species, with conspicuous plumage colour differentiation at a microgeographical scale. To understand whether natural selection could explain such variability, we compared patterns of variation in morphological and plumage colour traits within and among populations. To quantify morphological variation, we used measurements obtained by Frank Gill in the 1960s from 239 individuals collected in 60 localities distributed over the entire island of Réunion. To quantify colour variation, we measured the reflectance spectra of plumage patches of 50 males from a subset of Gill's specimens belonging to the five recognized plumage colour variants and used a visual model to project these colours in an avian- appropriate, tetrachromatic, colour space.We found that variants occupy different regions of the avian colour space and that between-variant differences for most plumage patches could be discriminated by the birds. Differences in morphology were also detected, but these were, in general, smaller than colour differences. Overall, we found that variation in both plumage colour and morphology among variants is greater than would be expected if genetic drift alone was responsible for phenotypic divergence. As the plumage colour variants correspond to four geographical forms, our results suggest that phenotypic evolution in the Réunion grey white-eye is at least partly explained by divergent selection in different habitats or regions."	"114"	"2"	"459–473"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/bij.12428"	NA	"pubid: JTtNqH-x4gYC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Terrestrial and aquatic invertebrates in the riverbed of an intermittent river: Parallels and contrasts in community organisation"	"Corti, Roland ; Datry, Thibault"	"Freshwater Biology"	NA	NA	"SUMMARY 1. Although intermittent rivers (IRs) are coupled aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems, their constituent communities are generally considered separately by ecologists. Yet, both communities are disturbed by alternating flowing and dry phases. IRs are thus good systems in which to explore the parallels and contrasts in community organisation in response to disturbance, and gain understanding in the drivers of these responses. 2. We compared the structure and composition of aquatic and terrestrial communities in the Albarine River, France. We collected aquatic and/or terrestrial invertebrates in the riverbed and adjacent riparian zone at four intermittent reaches and aquatic invertebrates in the riverbed at three perennial reaches over 1 year. 3. A total of 175 taxa were collected at intermittent reaches, including 62 aquatic and 113 terrestrial taxa, contrasting with the low biodiversity generally associated with IRs. 4. Aquatic and terrestrial communities were mainly subsets of those in perennial reaches and in the riparian zone, respectively, indicating that the riverbed of intermittent reaches is strongly linked to perennial reaches and the riparian zone by dispersal. 5. Total taxonomic richness in the riverbed (i.e. c diversity) of intermittent reaches was mainly due to among-reach variation for terrestrial invertebrates, but to within-reach variation for aquatic invertebrates. For both communities, among-reach dissimilarity was mainly due to spatial turnover rather than community nestedness. Spatial turnover was higher for terrestrial communities than for aquatic communities. 6. Our results indicate that aquatic and terrestrial communities have different organisation patterns in this intermittent river; probably in response to the contrasting spatial arrangements of colonist sources. Heterogeneous sources of terrestrial colonists along the riparian zone compared to more homogeneous sources of aquatic colonists from perennial reaches could explain the relative contribution of nestedness versus turnover."	"61"	"8"	"1308–1320"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/fwb.12692"	NA	NA
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Earthworm databases and ecological theory: Synthesis of current initiatives and main research directions"	"Decaëns, Thibaud ; Porco, David ; Cameron, Erin K. ; Eisenhauer, Nico ; Lapied, Emmanuel"	"Applied Soil Ecology"	NA	NA	NA	"104"	NA	"85–90"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.apsoil.2015.11.012"	NA	"pubid: 1wZwKGpLuwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Forecasted coral reef decline in marine biodiversity hotspots under climate change"	"Descombes, Patrice ; Wisz, Mary S. ; Leprieur, Fabien ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Heine, Christian ; Olsen, Steffen M. ; Swingedouw, Didier ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Mouillot, David ; Pellissier, Loïc"	"Global Change Biology"	NA	NA	"Coral bleaching events threaten coral reef habitats globally and cause severe declines of local biodiversity and productivity. Related to high sea surface temperatures, bleaching events are expected to increase as a consequence of future global warming. However, response to climate change is still uncertain as future low latitude climatic conditions have no present-day analogue. Sea surface temperatures during the Eocene epoch were warmer than forecasted changes for the coming century, and distributions of corals during the Eocene may help to inform models forecasting the future of coral reefs. We coupled contemporary and Eocene coral occurrences with information on their respective climatic conditions to model the thermal niche of coral reefs and its potential response to projected climate change. We found that under the RCP8.5 climate change scenario, the global suitability for coral reefs may increase up to 16% by 2100, mostly due to improved suitability of higher latitudes. In contrast, in its current range, coral reef suitability may decrease up to 46% by 2100. Reduction in thermal suitability will be most severe in biodiversity hotspots, especially in the Indo-Australian Archipelago. Our results suggest that many contemporary hotspots for coral reefs, including those that have been refugia in the past, spatially mismatch with future shifts in coral reef habitat suitability, posing even more challenges to conservation actions under climate change. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved."	"21"	"7"	"2479–2487"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/gcb.12868"	NA	"pubid: 1Aeql8wG3wEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Interdisciplinarity and infectious diseases: An ebola case study"	"Ezenwa, Vanessa O. ; Prieur-Richard, Anne-Hélène ; Roche, Benjamin ; Bailly, Xavier ; Becquart, Pierre ; García-Peña, Gabriel E. ; Hosseini, Parviez R. ; Keesing, Felicia ; Rizzoli, Annapaola ; Suzán, Gerardo ; Vignuzzi, Marco ; Vittecoq, Marion ; Mills, James N. ; Guégan, Jean-François"	"PLoS Pathogens"	NA	NA	"High-profile epidemics such as Ebola, avian influenza, and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) repeatedly thrust infectious diseases into the limelight. Because the emergence of diseases involves so many factors, the need for interdisciplinary approaches to studying emerging infections, particularly those originating from animals (i.e., zoonoses), is frequently discussed [1–4]. However, effective integration across disciplines is challenging in practice. Ecological ideas, for example, are rarely considered in biomedical research, while insights from biomedicine are often neglected in ecological studies of infectious diseases. One practical reason for this is that researchers in these fields focus on vastly different scales of biological organization (Fig 1), which are difficult to bridge both intellectually and methodologically. Nevertheless, integration across biological scales is increasingly needed for solving the complex problems zoonotic diseases pose to human and animal well-being. Motivated by current events, we use Ebola virus as a case study to highlight fundamental questions about zoonoses that can be addressed by integrating insights and approaches across scales."	"11"	"8"	"e1004992"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1371/journal.ppat.1004992"	NA	"pubid: h1pkognVyKwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Orchard management influences both functional and taxonomic ground beetle (Coleoptera, Carabidae) diversity in South-East France"	"Hedde, Mickaël ; Mazzia, Christophe ; Decaëns, Thibaud ; Nahmani, Johanne ; Pey, Benjamin ; Thénard, Jodie ; Capowiez, Yvan"	"Applied Soil Ecology"	NA	NA	"The impact of pest management strategies on the soil biota is crucial since it includes a lot of recognized beneficial animals. Commercial orchards are precisely managed crops on which large amounts of pesticides are used. We aimed to provide a clear understanding of the response of ground beetles communities to such strategies. Field sampling was carried out in three seasons in 15 commercial orchards. We studied ground beetle communities through their activity-density, and their structural and functional diversity. We found activity-density to be solely influenced by season and species richness by orchard management but only in summer. Differences in orchard management selected individuals on the basis of their morphology (in relation with their stature, walk, flight and nutrition) and their ecological preferences (food and habitat diversity). Our results illustrate the value of trait-based approaches in depicting orchard management effects on the within-year dynamics of ground beetles, when combined with taxonomic approaches."	"88"	NA	"26–31"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.apsoil.2014.11.014"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apsoil.2014.11.014"	"pubid: uPCvBZYD9qUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"thesis"	"2015"	"Biodiversité et caractéristiques physico-chimiques des sols de jardins associatifs urbains français"	"Joimel, Sophie"	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	"https://hal.univ-lorraine.fr/tel-01751521"	"pubid: o-PowTgVKEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2015"	"Patterns and processes in reef fish body size"	"Kulbicki, Michel ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Mouillot, David"	NA	"Ecology of fishes on coral reefs"	"Mora, Camilo"	"A central aim of ecology is to explain the heterogeneous distribution of biodiversity on earth. As expectations of diversity loss grow, this understanding is also critical for effective management and conservation. Although explanations for biodiversity patterns are still a matter for intense debate, they have often been considered to be scale-dependent. At large geographical scales, biogeographers have suggested that variation in species richness results from factors such as area, temperature, environmental stability, and geological processes, among many others. From the species pools generated by these large-scale processes, community ecologists have suggested that local-scale assembly of communities is achieved through processes such as competition, predation, recruitment, disturbances and immigration. Here we analyse hypotheses on speciation and dispersal for reef fish from the Indian and Pacific oceans and show how dispersal from a major centre of origination can simultaneously account for both large-scale gradients in species richness and the structure of local communities."	NA	NA	"104–115"	"Cambridge University Press"	"Cambridge, UK"	NA	NA	NA	"pubid: EsrhoZGmrkoC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Seed exchange networks, ethnicity, and sorghum diversity"	"Labeyrie, Vanesse ; Thomas, Mathieu ; Muthamia, Zachary K. ; Leclerc, Christian"	"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America"	NA	NA	"Recent studies investigating the relationship between crop genetic diversity and human cultural diversity patterns showed that seed exchanges are embedded in farmers' social organization. However, our understanding of the social processes involved remains limited. We investigated how farmers' membership in three major social groups interacts in shaping sorghum seed exchange networks in a cultural contact zone on Mount Kenya. Farmers are members of residence groups at the local scale and of dialect groups clustered within larger ethnolinguistic units at a wider scale. The Chuka and Tharaka, who are allied in the same ethnolinguistic unit, coexist with the Mbeere dialect group in the study area. We assessed farmers' homophily, propensity to exchange seeds with members of the same group, using exponential random graph models. We showed that homophily is significant within both residence and ethnolinguistic groups. At these two levels, homophily is driven by the kinship system, particularly by the combination of patrilocal residence and ethnolinguistic endogamy, because most seeds are exchanged among relatives. Indeed, residential homophily in seed exchanges results from local interactions between women and their in-law family, whereas at a higher level, ethnolinguistic homophily is driven by marriage endogamy. Seed exchanges and marriage ties are interrelated, and both are limited between the Mbeere and the other groups, although frequent between the Chuka and Tharaka. The impact of these social homophily processes on crop diversity is discussed."	"113"	"1"	"98–103"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1073/pnas.1513238112"	NA	"pubid: ZOYfmFL0FrgC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Transdisciplinary synthesis for ecosystem science, policy and management: The Australian experience"	"Lynch, A. J.J. ; Thackway, R. ; Specht, A. ; Beggs, P. J. ; Brisbane, S. ; Burns, E. L. ; Byrne, M. ; Capon, S. J. ; Casanova, M. T. ; Clarke, P. A. ; Davies, J. M. ; Dovers, S. ; Dwyer, R. G. ; Ens, E. ; Fisher, D. O. ; Flanigan, M. ; Garnier, E. ; Guru, S. M. ; Kilminster, K. ; Locke, J. ; Mac Nally, R. ; McMahon, K. M. ; Mitchell, P. J. ; Pierson, J. C. ; Rodgers, E. M. ; Russell-Smith, J. ; Udy, J. ; Waycott, M."	"Science of the Total Environment"	NA	NA	"Mitigating the environmental effects of global population growth, climatic change and increasing socio-ecological complexity is a daunting challenge. To tackle this requires synthesis: the integration of disparate information to generate novel insights from heterogeneous, complex situations where there are diverse perspectives. Since 1995, a structured approach to inter-, multi- and trans-disciplinary. ¡sup¿1¡/sup¿1Transdisciplinary: A theory, methodology, point of view or perspective that transcends entrenched categories and engages both researchers and practitioners in formulating problems in new ways to address real-world problems (e.g. eco-health, ecosystem services). collaboration around big science questions has been supported through synthesis centres around the world. These centres are finding an expanding role due to ever-accumulating data and the need for more and better opportunities to develop transdisciplinary and holistic approaches to solve real-world problems. The Australian Centre for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis (ACEAS ¡. http://www.aceas.org.au¿) has been the pioneering ecosystem science synthesis centre in the Southern Hemisphere. Such centres provide analysis and synthesis opportunities for time-pressed scientists, policy-makers and managers. They provide the scientific and organisational environs for virtual and face-to-face engagement, impetus for integration, data and methodological support, and innovative ways to deliver synthesis products.We detail the contribution, role and value of synthesis using ACEAS to exemplify the capacity for synthesis centres to facilitate trans-organisational, transdisciplinary synthesis. We compare ACEAS to other international synthesis centres, and describe how it facilitated project teams and its objective of linking natural resource science to policy to management. Scientists and managers were brought together to actively collaborate in multi-institutional, cross-sectoral and transdisciplinary research on contemporary ecological problems. The teams analysed, integrated and synthesised existing data to co-develop solution-oriented publications and management recommendations that might otherwise not have been produced. We identify key outcomes of some ACEAS working groups which used synthesis to tackle important ecosystem challenges. We also examine the barriers and enablers to synthesis, so that risks can be minimised and successful outcomes maximised. We argue that synthesis centres have a crucial role in developing, communicating and using synthetic transdisciplinary research."	"534"	NA	"173–184"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.scitotenv.2015.04.100"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2015.04.100"	"pubid: jMZTt8odoasC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"report"	"2015"	"An IUCN situation analysis of terrestrial and freshwater fauna in West and Central Africa"	"Mallon, D. P. ; Hoffman, M. ; Grainger, M. J. ; Hibert, F. ; van Vliet, N. ; McGowan, P. J. K."	NA	NA	NA	"This situation analysis was undertaken to inform responses to several resolutions made at the 5th World Conservation Congress in 2012 about the plight of large vertebrates in West and Central Africa. It draws on a wide range of information to provide information on the status of these species, important sites, pressures, legislation, the effectiveness of protected areas, and both community-based incentives for conservation and institutional responses. The overriding conclusion is of substantial wildlife declines and inadequate responses to either long-standing pressures or rapidly escalating threats that have emerged in recent years."	NA	NA	"162"	NA	NA	"Occasional Paper of the IUCN Species Survival Commission (No. 54), Gland, Switzerland and Cambridge, UK"	NA	"https://portals.iucn.org/library/sites/library/files/documents/SSC-OP-054.pdf"	"pubid: w7CBUyPWg-0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"The impact of management strategies in apple orchards on the structural and functional diversity of epigeal spiders"	"Mazzia, Christophe ; Pasquet, Alain ; Caro, Gaël ; Thénard, Jodie ; Cornic, Jean François ; Hedde, Mickaël ; Capowiez, Yvan"	"Ecotoxicology"	NA	NA	"Apple orchards are agro-ecosystems managed with high levels of inputs and especially pesticides. Epigeal spider communities were sampled in three seasons using pitfall traps in 19 apple orchards with four different management strategies (abandoned, under organic, Integrated Pest Management or conventional protection) and thus significantly different pesticide usage. The abundance and diversity of the spider communities was the highest in abandoned orchards. Higher diversity and evenness values were the only difference in spider communities from the organic orchards compared to the other commercial orchards. The analysis of five ecological traits (proportion of aeronauts, type of diet, overwintering stages, body size and maternal care), however, clearly showed differences in the spiders from the organic orchards. The spider species in the other commercial orchards were smaller and have higher dispersal abilities. Seven bioindicator species were identified in abandoned orchards, two species in organic ones (only Lycosidae) and one species in conventional orchards (Linyphiidae)."	"24"	"3"	"616–625"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1007/s10646-014-1409-1"	NA	"pubid: hB2aVRuWZNwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Niche shift can impair the ability to predict invasion risk in the marine realm: An illustration using Mediterranean fish invaders"	"Parravicini, Valeriano ; Azzurro, Ernesto ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Belmaker, Jonathan"	"Ecology Letters"	NA	NA	"Climatic niche conservatism, the tendency of species-climate associations to remain unchanged across space and time, is pivotal for forecasting the spread of invasive species and biodiversity changes. Indeed, it represents one of the key assumptions underlying species distribution models (SDMs), the main tool currently available for predicting range shifts of species. However, to date, no comprehensive assessment of niche conservatism is available for the marine realm. We use the invasion by Indo-Pacific tropical fishes into the Mediterranean Sea, the world's most invaded marine basin, to examine the conservatism of the climatic niche. We show that tropical invaders may spread far beyond their native niches and that SDMs do not predict their new distributions better than null models. Our results suggest that SDMs may underestimate the potential spread of invasive species and call for prudence in employing these models in order to forecast species invasion and their response to environmental change."	"18"	"3"	"246–253"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ele.12401"	NA	"pubid: fFgHTpLxhAC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Responses of functional and taxonomic collembolan community structure to site management in Mediterranean urban and surrounding areas"	"Santorufo, Lucia ; Cortet, Jérôme ; Nahmani, Johanne ; Pernin, Céline ; Salmon, Sandrine ; Pernot, Audrey ; Morel, Jean-Louis ; Maisto, Giulia"	"European Journal of Soil Biology"	NA	NA	"The aim of this study was to identify the physical and chemical properties of different human-mediated ecosystems (urban, peri-urban/industrial and agricultural - including forested areas as a control) and to evaluate their effects on the taxonomic and functional trait composition and microhabitat preferences of collembolan communities. Soils impacted by different types of land management were sampled in urban and surrounding areas of Naples, Italy. The physical and chemical properties of the soil were measured, and the species distribution, functional traits and microhabitat preferences of its collembolan community were characterized. The results indicated that different types of human activities markedly affect the abiotic properties of soils. We found that agricultural soils were more altered than forest soils, and that collembolan communities in agricultural soil were dominated by few species (mainly Proisotoma minuta and Entomobrya multifasciata), and that these species showed adaptations to open or disturbed environments. Instead, the collembolan communities in urban soils were comparable to those observed in forest soils. It appears that agricultural activities have a greater effect on the taxonomy and functional traits of collembolan communities than urban impact has."	"70"	NA	"46–57"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.ejsobi.2015.07.003"	NA	"pubid: -vzq6BoH5oUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Metacommunity and phylogenetic structure determine wildlife and zoonotic infectious disease patterns in time and space"	"Suzán, Gerardo ; García-Peña, Gabriel E. ; Castro-Arellano, Ivan ; Rico, Oscar ; Rubio, André V. ; Tolsá, María J. ; Roche, Benjamin ; Hosseini, Parviez R. ; Rizzoli, Annapaola ; Murray, Kris A. ; Zambrana-Torrelio, Carlos ; Vittecoq, Marion ; Bailly, Xavier ; Aguirre, A. Alonso ; Daszak, Peter ; Prieur-Richard, Anne-Hélène ; Mills, James N. ; Guégan, Jean-François"	"Ecology and Evolution"	NA	NA	"The potential for disease transmission at the interface of wildlife, domestic animals and humans has become a major concern for public health and conservation biology. Research in this subject is commonly conducted at local scales while the regional context is neglected. We argue that prevalence of infection at local and regional levels is influenced by three mechanisms occurring at the landscape level in a metacommunity context. First, (1) dispersal, colonization, and extinction of pathogens, reservoir or vector hosts, and nonreservoir hosts, may be due to stochastic and niche-based processes, thus determining distribution of all species, and then their potential interactions, across local communities (metacommunity structure). Second, (2) anthropogenic processes may drive environmental filtering of hosts, nonhosts, and pathogens. Finally, (3) phylogenetic diversity relative to reservoir or vector host(s), within and between local communities may facilitate pathogen persistence and circulation. Using a metacommunity approach, public heath scientists may better evaluate the factors that predispose certain times and places for the origin and emergence of infectious diseases. The multidisciplinary approach we describe fits within a comprehensive One Health and Ecohealth framework addressing zoonotic infectious disease outbreaks and their relationship to their hosts, other animals, humans, and the environment."	"5"	"4"	"865–873"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1002/ece3.1404"	NA	"pubid: 5F1dSjz1ScoC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2015"	"Chapter 6 - A network-based method to detect patterns of local crop biodiversity"	"Thomas, Mathieu ; Verzelen, Nicolas ; Barbillon, Pierre ; Coomes, Oliver T. ; Caillon, Sophie ; McKey, Doyle ; Elias, Marianne ; Garine, Eric ; Raimond, Christine ; Dounias, Edmond ; Jarvis, Devra ; Wencélius, Jean ; Leclerc, Christian ; Labeyrie, Vanesse ; Cuong, Pham Hung ; Hue, Nguyen Thi Ngoc ; Sthapit, Bhuwon ; Rana, Ram Bahadur ; Barnaud, Adeline ; Violon, Chloé ; Reyes, Luis Manuel Arias ; Moreno, Luis Latournerie ; de Santis, Paola ; Massol, François"	NA	"Ecosystem services: From biodiversity to society, Part 1"	"Woodward, Guy ; Bohan, D. A."	NA	NA	NA	"259–320"	"Advances in Ecological Research (Vol. 53)"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/bs.aecr.2015.10.002"	"pubid: WHBERAHVdrEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Trait databases: Misuses and precautions"	"Violle, Cyrille ; Borgy, Benjamin ; Choler, Philippe"	"Journal of Vegetation Science"	NA	NA	"Trait-based ecology has enjoyed increasing success, aided by the development of trait databases. However their reliability has hardly been tested. Sandel et al., in this issue, identified uncertainties in trait databases linked to missing species and variable sampling effort among species. This highlights the danger of using trait databases in a blind manner and the need for their thorough evaluation."	"26"	"5"	"826–827"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/jvs.12325"	"https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jvs.12325"	"pubid: ovGv7akYl-cC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Vegetation ecology meets ecosystem science: Permanent grasslands as a functional biogeography case study"	"Violle, Cyrille ; Choler, Philippe ; Borgy, Benjamin ; Garnier, Eric ; Amiaud, Bernard ; Debarros, Guilhem ; Diquelou, Sylvain ; Gachet, Sophie ; Jolivet, Claudy ; Kattge, Jens ; Lavorel, Sandra ; Lemauviel-Lavenant, Servane ; Loranger, Jessy ; Mikolajczak, Alexis ; Munoz, François ; Olivier, Jean ; Viovy, Nicolas"	"Science of the Total Environment"	NA	NA	"The effect of biodiversity on ecosystem functioning has been widely acknowledged, and the importance of the functional roles of species, as well as their diversity, in the control of ecosystem processes has been emphasised recently. However, bridging biodiversity and ecosystem science to address issues at a biogeographic scale is still in its infancy. Bridging this gap is the primary goal of the emerging field of functional biogeography. While the rise of Big Data has catalysed functional biogeography studies in recent years, comprehensive evidence remains scarce. Here, we present the rationale and the first results of a country-wide initiative focused on the C¡inf¿3¡/inf¿ permanent grasslands. We aimed to collate, integrate and process large databases of vegetation relevés, plant traits and environmental layers to provide a country-wide assessment of ecosystem properties and services which can be used to improve regional models of climate and land use changes. We outline the theoretical background, data availability, and ecoinformatics challenges associated with the approach and its feasibility. We provide a case study of upscaling of leaf dry matter content averaged at ecosystem level and country-wide predictions of forage digestibility. Our framework sets milestones for further hypothesis testing in functional biogeography and earth system modelling."	"534"	NA	"43–51"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.scitotenv.2015.03.141"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2015.03.141"	"pubid: QAOzB4mb83kC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2015"	"Islands as model systems in ecology and evolution: Prospects fifty years after MacArthur-Wilson"	"Warren, Ben H. ; Simberloff, Daniel ; Ricklefs, Robert E. ; Aguilée, Robin ; Condamine, Fabien L. ; Gravel, Dominique ; Morlon, Hélène ; Mouquet, Nicolas ; Rosindell, James ; Casquet, Juliane ; Conti, Elena ; Cornuault, Josselin ; Fernández-Palacios, José María ; Hengl, Tomislav ; Norder, Sietze J. ; Rijsdijk, Kenneth F. ; Sanmartín, Isabel ; Strasberg, Dominique ; Triantis, Kostas A. ; Valente, Luis M. ; Whittaker, Robert J. ; Gillespie, Rosemary G. ; Emerson, Brent C. ; Thébaud, Christophe"	"Ecology Letters"	NA	NA	"The study of islands as model systems has played an important role in the development of evolutionary and ecological theory. The 50th anniversary of MacArthur and Wilson's (December 1963) article, 'An equilibrium theory of insular zoogeography', was a recent milestone for this theme. Since 1963, island systems have provided new insights into the formation of ecological communities. Here, building on such developments, we highlight prospects for research on islands to improve our understanding of the ecology and evolution of communities in general. Throughout, we emphasise how attributes of islands combine to provide unusual research opportunities, the implications of which stretch far beyond islands. Molecular tools and increasing data acquisition now permit re-assessment of some fundamental issues that interested MacArthur and Wilson. These include the formation of ecological networks, species abundance distributions, and the contribution of evolution to community assembly. We also extend our prospects to other fields of ecology and evolution - understanding ecosystem functioning, speciation and diversification - frequently employing assets of oceanic islands in inferring the geographic area within which evolution has occurred, and potential barriers to gene flow. Although island-based theory is continually being enriched, incorporating non-equilibrium dynamics is identified as a major challenge for the future."	"18"	"2"	"200–217"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ele.12398"	NA	"pubid: svGagg1hbZMC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Energetic and ecological constraints on population density of reef fishes"	"Barneche, Diego R. ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Floeter, Sergio R. ; Friedlander, Alan M. ; Allen, A. P."	"Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences"	NA	NA	NA	"283"	"1823"	"20152186"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1098/rspb.2015.2186"	"https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rspb.2015.2186"	"pubid: uWy0R8PweswC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Marine reserves lag behind wilderness in the conservation of key functional roles"	"D'agata, Stéphanie ; Mouillot, David ; Wantiez, Laurent ; Friedlander, Alan M. ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Vigliola, Laurent"	"Nature Communications"	NA	NA	"Although marine reserves represent one of the most effective management responses to human impacts, their capacity to sustain the same diversity of species, functional roles and biomass of reef fishes as wilderness areas remains questionable, in particular in regions with deep and long-lasting human footprints. Here we show that fish functional diversity and biomass of top predators are significantly higher on coral reefs located at more than 20[thinsp]h travel time from the main market compared with even the oldest (38 years old), largest (17,500[thinsp]ha) and most restrictive (no entry) marine reserve in New Caledonia (South-Western Pacific). We further demonstrate that wilderness areas support unique ecological values with no equivalency as one gets closer to humans, even in large and well-managed marine reserves. Wilderness areas may therefore serve as benchmarks for management effectiveness and act as the last refuges for the most vulnerable functional roles."	"7"	NA	"12000–12009"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/ncomms12000"	NA	"pubid: DPO9WFcz7UcC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Unexpected high vulnerability of functions in wilderness areas: evidence from coral reef fishes"	"D'agata, Stéphanie ; Vigliola, Laurent ; Graham, Nicholas A. J. ; Wantiez, Laurent ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Villéger, Sébastien ; Mou-Tham, Gerard ; Frolla, Philippe ; Friedlander, Alan M. ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Mouillot, David"	"Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences"	NA	NA	"High species richness is thought to support the delivery of multiple ecosystem functions and services under changing environments. Yet, some species might perform unique functional roles while others are redundant. Thus, the benefits of high species richness in maintaining ecosystem functioning are uncertain if functions have little redundancy, potentially leading to high vulnerability of functions. We studied the natural propensity of assemblages to be functionally buffered against loss prior to fishing activities, using functional trait combi- nations, in coral reef fish assemblages across unfished wilderness areas of the Indo-Pacific: Chagos Archipelago, New Caledonia and French Polynesia. Fish functional diversity in these wilderness areas is highly vulnerable to fish- ing, explained by species- and abundance-based redundancy packed into a small combination of traits, leaving most other trait combinations (60%) sensi- tive to fishing, with no redundancy. Functional vulnerability peaks for mobile and sedentary top predators, and large species in general. Functional vulner- ability decreases for certain functional entities in New Caledonia, where overall functional redundancy was higher. Uncovering these baseline patterns of functional vulnerability can offer early warning signals of the damaging effects from fishing, and may serve as baselines to guide precautionary and even proactive conservation actions."	"283"	"1844"	"20160128"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1098/rspb.2016.0128"	NA	"pubid: cx97FdCJQX8C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Towards understanding the organisation of metacommunities in highly dynamic ecological systems"	"Datry, Thibault ; Bonada, Núria ; Heino, Jani"	"Oikos"	NA	NA	"Community ecology recognises today that local biological communities are not only aff ected by local biotic interactions and abiotic environmental conditions, but also by regional processes (e.g. dispersal). While much is known about how metacommunities are organised in space in terrestrial, marine and freshwater ecological systems, their temporal variations remain poorly studied. Here, we address the question of the dynamics of metacommunities in highly variable systems, using intermittent rivers (IRs), those rivers which temporarily stop fl owing or dry up, as a model system. We fi rst review how habitat heterogeneity in space and time infl uences metacommunity organisation. Second, we compare the metacommunities in IRs to those in perennial rivers (PRs) and develop the idea that IRs could undergo highly dynamic shifts due to the temporal variability in local and regional community processes. Th ird, we develop the idea that in IRs, metacommunities of the wet and dry phases of IRs are closely intertwined, thereby increasing even more their respective temporal dynamics. Last, we provide a roadmap to stimulate further conceptual and empirical developments of metacommunity research and identify possible applications for improving the management of IRs and other highly dynamic ecological systems."	"125"	"2"	"149–159"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/oik.02922"	NA	"pubid: OoWeVVXg5wC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"A landscape approach to advance intermittent river ecology"	"Datry, Thibault ; Pella, Herve ; Leigh, Catherine ; Bonada, Núria ; Hugueny, Bernard"	"Freshwater Biology"	NA	NA	"Intermittent rivers are increasingly viewed as shifting mosaics of lotic (flowing water), lentic (standing water) and terrestrial (dry riverbed) habitats. The diversity, spatial arrangement, temporal turnover and connectivity of these habitats are controlled by the magnitude, frequency, duration and extent of drying and rewetting events, which maintain habitat heterogeneity and control biodiversity and biogeochemical processes in intermittent rivers. We consider intermittent rivers as spatiotemporal landscape mosaics to identify the implications such a view has for empirical and theoretical developments in landscape and river ecology. Using observational data of flow states collected by citizen scientists along 1400 km of river channels in western France, we used landscape metrics and ecologically scaled indices for four hypothetical, aquatic species (two fish and two insects) to describe the dynamics of intermittent river mosaics for five catchments. Dry patches dominated most observation dates but flowing patches had the longest average length and occupied the greatest proportion of channel length. At the start of each summer, catchments were almost entirely composed of flowing patches but lentic and dry patches could represented up to 80% of the catchments as summer progressed. Patch dynamics were typified by high levels of spatiotemporal variability. In contrast, ecologically scaled indices did not vary greatly among catchments within species. The ecologically scaled indices representing small fish were the most affected by habitat fragmentation. Such a landscape perspective could affect understanding of biodiversity patterns and biogeochemical processes in intermittent rivers. We outline the methodological developments required to integrate landscape approaches into intermittent river research, the associated challenges and current limitations in landscape ecology tools and models and the benefits of citizen science data sets. The continued quantification of shifting habitat mosaics in intermittent rivers will provide multiple opportunities to advance river and landscape ecology."	"61"	"8"	"1200–1213"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/fwb.12645"	NA	"pubid: ITz7TVZQ0sgC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"RAINBIO: A mega-database of tropical African vascular plants distributions"	"Dauby, Gilles ; Zaiss, Rainer ; Blach-Overgaard, Anne ; Catarino, Luís ; Damen, Theo ; Deblauwe, Vincent ; Dessein, Steven ; Dransfield, John ; Droissart, Vincent ; Duarte, Maria Cristina ; Engledow, Henry ; Fadeur, Geoffrey ; Figueira, Rui ; Gereau, Roy E. ; Hardy, Oliver J. ; Harris, David J. ; de Heij, Janneke ; Janssens, Steven B. ; Klomberg, Yannick ; Ley, Alexandra C. ; MacKinder, Barbara A. ; Meerts, Pierre ; van de Poel, Jeike L. ; Sonké, Bonaventure ; Sosef, Marc S. M. ; Stévart, Tariq ; Stoffelen, Piet ; Svenning, Jens-Christian ; Sepulchre, Pierre ; van der Burgt, Xander ; Wieringa, Jan J. ; Couvreur, Thomas L. P."	"PhytoKeys"	NA	NA	"The tropical vegetation of Africa is characterized by high levels of species diversity but is undergoing important shifts in response to ongoing climate change and increasing anthropogenic pressures. Although our knowledge of plant species distribution patterns in the African tropics has been improving over the years, it remains limited. Here we present RAINBIO, a unique comprehensive mega-database of georeferenced records for vascular plants in continental tropical Africa. The geographic focus of the database is the region south of the Sahel and north of Southern Africa, and the majority of data originate from tropical forest regions. RAINBIO is a compilation of 13 datasets either publicly available or personal ones. Numerous in depth data quality checks, automatic and manual via several African flora experts, were undertaken for georeferencing, standardization of taxonomic names and identification and merging of duplicated records. The resulting RAINBIO data allows exploration and extraction of distribution data for 25,356 native tropical African vascular plant species, which represents ca. 89% of all known plant species in the area of interest. Habit information is also provided for 91% of these species."	"74"	NA	"1–18"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3897/phytokeys.74.9723"	NA	"pubid: iWLAPfBKHwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Remotely sensed temperature and precipitation data improve species distribution modelling in the tropics"	"Deblauwe, Vincent ; Droissart, Vincent ; Bose, R. ; Sonké, Bonaventure ; Blach-Overgaard, Anne ; Svenning, Jens-Christian ; Wieringa, Jan J. ; Ramesh, B. R. ; Stévart, Tariq ; Couvreur, Thomas L. P."	"Global Ecology and Biogeography"	NA	NA	"distribution modelling typically relies completely or partially on climatic variables as predictors, overlooking the fact that these are themselves predictions with associated uncertainties. This is particularly critical when such predictors are interpolated between sparse station data, such as in the tropics. The goal of this study is to provide a new set of satellite-based climatic predictor data and to evaluate its potential to improve modelled species–climate associations and transferability to novel geographical regions.forests areas of Central Africa, the Western Ghats of India and South America.compared models calibrated on the widely used WorldClim station-interpolated climatic data with models where either temperature or precipitation data from WorldClim were replaced by data from CRU, MODIS, TRMM and CHIRPS. Each predictor set was used to model 451 plant species distributions. To test for chance associations, we devised a null model with which to compare the accuracy metric obtained for every species.than half of the studied rain forest species distributions matched the climatic pattern better than did random distributions. The inclusion of MODIS temperature and CHIRPS precipitation estimates derived from remote sensing each allowed for a better than random fit for respectively 40% and 22% more species than models calibrated on WorldClim. Furthermore, their inclusion was positively related to a better transferability of models to novel regions.conclusionsprovide a newly assembled dataset of ecologically meaningful variables derived from MODIS and CHIRPS for download, and provide a basis for choosing among the plethora of available climate datasets. We emphasize the need to consider the method used in the production of climate data when working on a region with sparse meteorological station data. In this context, remote sensing data should be the preferred choice, particularly when model transferability to novel climates or inferences on causality are invoked."	"25"	"4"	"443–454"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/geb.12426"	NA	"pubid: ibZ2AwG9z6wC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Agroecology and conservation of weed diversity in agricultural lands"	"Gaba, Sabrina ; Reboud, Xavier ; Fried, Guillaume"	"Botany Letters"	NA	NA	"Unité entomologie et plantes invasives, CBGP, 755 avenue du campus agropolis, Montferrier-sur-Lez cedex, France This issue, entitled Agroecology and conservation of weed diversity in agricultural lands, gathers together several contributions on the functional role of weeds in two con-trasting agricultural contexts, namely arable field and vineyard, and on the strategies for weed biodiversity conservation in farmlands. Arable weeds are usually defined as all non-crop spe-cies found in a cultivated field. In regions considered as the birthplaces of agriculture, regular soil disturbances induced by agricultural practices have created suitable habitats for some well-adapted native plants (apophytic species). With the development of agriculture, this set of species strongly associated with arable lands have been diversely introduced to other regions of the world, where they progressively enriched the regional pool of arable weeds in addition to the local (apophytic) spe-cies. In France, about 1200 arable weed species have been identified (Jauzein 1995), among which 300 spe-cies can be frequently encountered (Fried et al. 2007). Ethnobotanical studies showed the great importance of arable weeds not only by considering weeding as a very early human activity but also by their different representa-tions in dialects, and imaginary, symbolic and medicinal uses among rural societies until the twentieth century (Lieutaghi 1986). The threshold between the negative and positive perceptions of these species was probably fuzzier than today, even for farmers. For example, in traditional farming systems, weeds remaining after the harvest were used as a complementary resource for grazing of livestock. Nowadays, especially since the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (Millennium Ecosystem Assessment 2005), the dual perception of weeds blends into the search for a trade-off between the antagonistic ecosystem services that they support. Indeed, weeds are now more widely recognized for their major contribution in supporting numerous ecosystem services (Marshall et al. 2003; Eraud et al. 2015; Requier et al. 2015; Rollin et al. 2016), among which several ecosystem services for crop production, such as not only pollination (Bretagnolle and Gaba 2015) and limitation of soil erosion but also auxiliaries in the vicinity of crops (Zandstra and Motooka 1978) (Figure 1). Consequently, the persistence of weed diversity in farm-lands becomes mandatory for the provision of impor-tant ecosystem functions, but it also needs to be carefully managed so as to limit the impact of weeds on crop yields through the competition for major resources (i.e. water, light and nutrients) or even maintenance of pests (Reboud et al. 2016; DiTommaso et al. forthcoming). The search for a trade-off between the antagonistic weeds functions is emblematic of agroecology (Altieri 1995; Gliessman 1995), and requires determination of the optimal spa-tiotemporal distributions of weed species provisioning these functions at both the field and landscape scales. However, with the rise of modern agriculture after the 1950s, the loss of non-crop habitats, the simplification of landscapes and the intensive use of herbicides have led to a dramatic decline of weed diversity (Stoate et al. 2001) and particularly of rare arable weeds (Storkey et al. 2012). In the present section, Fried, Dessaint, and Reboud (2016) document the decline of arable weeds between the 1970s and the 2000s in a small region of Burgundy (France). Beyond the loss of rare arable weeds, this study also pinpoints a strong reduction of formerly common weed species. There was a 46% decrease in the average number of weed species found within a field, correlated to a 38% decrease in weed functional diversity. The trend was similar when focusing on response traits to manage-ment practices (e.g. plant height, seed mass, season of germination) or on effect traits that influence the timing and amount of resources available for pollinators (flow-ering phenology, pollination mode). The authors found a positive relationship between weed species richness and functional diversity, and highlighted that the cur-rent level of weed diversity is now often unable to cover the full range of functions that were provided by arable weed communities in the 1970s. Regarding traits such as production of pollen and nectar, changes in weed com-munities (with a higher proportion of wind-pollinated species today) reduce the availability of resources for honey bees, wild pollinators and pest natural enemies"	"163"	"4"	"351–354"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1080/23818107.2016.1236290"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/23818107.2016.1236290"	"pubid: DUFsPKDdMi0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Niche-based host extinction increases prevalence of an environmentally acquired pathogen"	"García-Peña, Gabriel E. ; Garchitorena, Andrés ; Carolan, Kevin ; Canard, Elsa ; Prieur-Richard, Anne-Hélène ; Suzán, Gerardo ; Mills, James N. ; Roche, Benjamin ; Guégan, Jean-François"	"Oikos"	NA	NA	"Understanding the ecology of environmentally acquired and multi-host pathogens affecting humans and wildlife has been elusive in part because fluctuations in the abundance of host and pathogen species may feed back onto pathogen transmission. Complexity of pathogen-host dynamics emerges from processes driving local extinction of the pathogen, its hosts and non-hosts. While the extinction of species may entail losses in pathogen-host interactions and decrease the proportion of hosts infected by a pathogen (prevalence), some studies suggest the opposite pattern. Niche-based extinction, based on the species tolerance to environmental conditions, may increase prevalence of infection because the pathogen and its hosts persist, while other species go extinct. Hence, understanding prevalence of infection requires disentangling random- and niche-based extinction processes occurring simultaneously. To contribute to this exercise, we analysed the prevalence of an environmentally acquired, multi-host pathogen, Mycobacterium ulcerans (MU), in a unique dataset of 16 communities of freshwater animals, surveyed during 12 months in Akonolinga, Cameroon in equatorial Africa. Two different ecosystems were identified: rivers (lotic) and swamps and flooded areas (lentic). Increased prevalence of MU infection was correlated with niche-based extinction of aquatic host invertebrates and vertebrates in the lentic ecosystems, whereas decreased prevalence was associated with random disassembly of the lotic ecosystems. This finding suggests that random and niche-based extinction of host taxa are key to assessing the effect of local extinction of species on the ecology of environmentally acquired and multi-host pathogens."	"125"	"10"	"1508–1515"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/oik.02700"	NA	"pubid: 9VeumLvkZSQC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Invertebrate assemblage responses and the dual roles of resistance and resilience to drying in intermittent rivers"	"Leigh, Catherine ; Bonada, Núria ; Boulton, Andrew J. ; Hugueny, Bernard ; Larned, Scott T. ; Vander Vorste, Ross ; Datry, Thibault"	"Aquatic Sciences"	NA	NA	"Intermittent rivers are naturally dynamic ecosystems in which flow cessation and riverbed drying cause temporal fluctuations in aquatic biodiversity. We analysed datasets from intermittent rivers in different climate zones across the world to examine responses of aquatic macroinvertebrate assemblages to drying, in relation to both taxonomic composition and traits of resistance and resilience. First, we compared the differences in taxonomic richness and turnover and in trait diversity, richness and redundancy before and after intermittent sites dried with the differences in concurrently sampled perennial sites. We found such high levels of variation in the before-after differences at intermittent and perennial sites that we could not detect statistical differences between them. Second, we examined the effects of climate (arid, Mediterranean, temperate) and durations of dry and post-dry (flowing) periods on responses to drying at intermittent sites. Only climate had a detectable effect; the proportion of taxa at intermittent sites that persisted through drying-rewetting phases was greatest in arid-zone rivers. Regardless of climate, the invertebrates that persisted at intermittent sites were dominated by taxa resistant to drying. By contrast, taxa that persisted at perennial sites had fewer traits conferring resistance but more conferring resilience. The contributions of resistance and resilience combined with the presence of both intermittent and perennial reaches likely supports the long-term stability and persistence of communities in intermittent rivers, despite the inherently high variation in short-term responses to drying."	"78"	"2"	"291–301"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1007/s00027-015-0427-2"	NA	"pubid: aU4yMueWZ3QC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Ecological research and management of intermittent rivers: an historical review and future directions"	"Leigh, Catherine ; Boulton, Andrew J. ; Courtwright, Jennifer L. ; Fritz, Ken ; May, Christine L. ; Walker, Richard H. ; Datry, Thibault"	"Freshwater Biology"	NA	NA	"Rivers and streams that do not flow permanently (herein intermittent rivers; IRs) make up a large proportion of the world's inland waters and are gaining widespread attention. We review the research on IRs from its early focus on natural history through to current application in management and policy. The few early studies of the ecology of IRs were largely descriptive. Nevertheless, in the 1970s, synthesis of this sparse research complemented work on temporary standing waters to found a powerful framework for much of the subsequent research on IRs. Research on the ecology and biogeochemistry of IRs continues to fuel our understanding of resistance and resilience to drying and flooding as disturbances. Syntheses of the growing literature, including cross-continental and cross-climate comparisons, are revealing the generality and individuality of ecological and ecosystem responses to flow cessation and surface water loss. Meanwhile, increasing numbers of experiments test the causality of these responses. Much of the increased consideration of IRs in research, management and policy is driven by the observed and projected shifts in flow regimes from perennial to intermittent associated with changes in land and water use and climate, superimposed on the high incidence of natural intermittency. The need to protect and better manage IRs is prompting researchers to develop new or modified methods to monitor flow status and assess the ecological condition of these systems. Intermittent river research and management will benefit from greater exploration of aquatic–terrestrial linkages, wet–dry cycling and temporal dynamics, more-detailed mapping and predictive modelling of flow intermittency and the application of metapopulation and metacommunity concepts alongside multiple-stressors and novel-ecosystems research. By building on existing knowledge, continuing to develop quantitative models and distribution maps and using experiments to test hypotheses and concepts, we can further ecological understanding and wise management of these ubiquitous ecosystems."	"61"	"8"	"1181–1199"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/fwb.12646"	NA	"pubid: VBDT71xRUdcC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Historical and contemporary determinants of global phylogenetic structure in tropical reef fish faunas"	"Leprieur, Fabien ; Colosio, Simona ; Descombes, Patrice ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Cowman, Peter F. ; Bellwood, David R. ; Mouillot, David ; Pellissier, Loïc"	"Ecography"	NA	NA	"Identifying the main determinants of tropical marine biodiversity is essential for devising appropriate conservation measures mitigating the ongoing degradation of coral reef habitats. Based on a gridded distribution database and phylogenetic information, we compared the phylogenetic structure of assemblages for three tropical reef fish families (Labridae: wrasses, Pomacentridae: damselfishes and Chaetodontidae: butterflyfishes) using the Net Relatedness (NRI) and Nearest Taxon (NTI) indices. We then related these indices to contemporary and historical environmental conditions of coral reefs using spatial regression analyses. Higher levels of phylogenetic clustering were found for fish assemblages in the Indo-Australian Archipelago (IAA), and more particularly when considering the NTI index. The phylogenetic structure of the Pomacentridae, and to a lower extent of the Chaeotodontidae and Labridae, was primarily associated with the location of refugia during the Quaternary period. Phylogenetic clustering in the IAA may partly result from vicariance events associated with coral reef fragmentation during the glacial periods of the Quaternary. Variation in the patterns among fish families further suggest that dispersal abilities may have interacted with past habitat availability in shaping the phylogenetic structure of tropical reef fish assemblages.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved."	"39"	"9"	"825–835"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ecog.01638"	NA	"pubid: -fu4zM₆qcIC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Plate tectonics drive tropical reef biodiversity dynamics"	"Leprieur, Fabien ; Descombes, Patrice ; Gaboriau, Theo ; Cowman, Peter F. ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Melian, Carlos J. ; de Santana, Charles N. ; Heine, Christian ; Mouillot, David ; Bellwood, David R. ; Pellissier, Loïc"	"Nature Communications"	NA	NA	"The Cretaceous breakup of Gondwana strongly modified the global distribution of shallow tropical seas reshaping the geographic configuration of marine basins. However, the links between tropical reef availability, plate tectonic processes and marine biodiversity distribution patterns are still unknown. Here, we show that a spatial diversification model constrained by absolute plate motions for the past 140 million years predicts the emergence and movement of diversity hotspots on tropical reefs. The spatial dynamics of tropical reefs explains marine fauna diversification in the Tethyan Ocean during the Cretaceous and early Cenozoic, and identifies an eastward movement of ancestral marine lineages towards the Indo-Australian Archipelago in the Miocene. A mechanistic model based only on habitat-driven diversification and dispersal yields realistic predictions of current biodiversity patterns for both corals and fishes. As in terrestrial systems, we demonstrate that plate tectonics played a major role in driving tropical marine shallow reef biodiversity dynamics."	"7"	NA	"11461–11468"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/ncomms11461"	NA	"pubid: 9CGX2owmTHMC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Management diversity within organic production influences epigeal spider communities in apple orchards"	"Marliac, Gaëlle ; Mazzia, Christophe ; Pasquet, Alain ; Cornic, Jean François ; Hedde, Mickaël ; Capowiez, Yvan"	"Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment"	NA	NA	"When compared to conventional production, organic production often has positive effects on the biodiversity of non-pest arthropods. However, organic production is only defined by the ban of synthetic pesticides and fertilizers and each farmer can still apply a wide variety of management practices that may also directly and indirectly influence arthropod biodiversity. Taking epigeal spiders inhabiting apple orchards as a case study, we first characterised the main agricultural practices applied in 20 selected organic orchards around Avignon in the South-East of France. Using ordination (PCA) and classification (HAC) methods, we identify three groups within these organic apple orchards: (i) the Biodynamy group, (ii) the Net group and (iii) the Classic group. The growers from the Biodynamy group used significantly less insecticides (40% less than those from the Classic group) and had more favourable habitat management practices (hedge and ground cover). We then sampled spider communities in each orchard in spring (April) and summer (June) using pitfall traps and showed that the spider communities in the Biodynamy and Net groups were significantly more abundant (+4% on average), species rich (+60% on average) and diverse (+70% on average) than those in the Classic group. GLM analysis showed that these differences were mainly due to reduced insecticide use but also the hedge quality of these orchards. A trait-based approach was further used to differentiate the spiders found in the three groups of orchards. The most striking finding was that spiders that use webs to forage (Linyphiidae, Agenilidae and Titanoecidae) were favoured in the Net group. This is probably because these nets protect the orchards from the major pest, allowing reduced pesticide use but also because the nets protect orchards from the windy conditions frequently observed around Avignon."	"216"	NA	"73–81"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.agee.2015.09.026"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.agee.2015.09.026"	"pubid: KIRwYnRZzWQC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Humans and seasonal climate variability threaten large-bodied coral reef fish with small ranges"	"Mellin, C. ; Mouillot, David ; Kulbicki, Michel ; McClanahan, Tim R. ; Vigliola, Laurent ; Bradshaw, C. J. A. ; Brainard, R. E. ; Chabanet, Pascale ; Edgar, G. J. ; Fordham, D. A. ; Friedlander, Alan M. ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Sequeira, A. M. M. ; Stuart-Smith, R. D. ; Wantiez, Laurent ; Caley, M. J."	"Nature Communications"	NA	NA	"Coral reefs are among the most species-rich and threatened ecosystems on Earth, yet the extent to which human stressors determine species occurrences, compared with biogeography or environmental conditions, remains largely unknown. With ever-increasing human-mediated disturbances on these ecosystems, an important question is not only how many species can inhabit local communities, but also which biological traits determine species that can persist (or not) above particular disturbance thresholds. Here we show that human pressure and seasonal climate variability are disproportionately and negatively associated with the occurrence of large-bodied and geographically small-ranging fishes within local coral reef communities. These species are 67% less likely to occur where human impact and temperature seasonality exceed critical thresholds, such as in the marine biodiversity hotspot: the Coral Triangle. Our results identify the most sensitive species and critical thresholds of human and climatic stressors, providing opportunity for targeted conservation intervention to prevent local extinctions."	"7"	NA	"10491–10499"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/ncomms10491"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/ncomms10491"	"pubid: oYwriLWYh5YC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Reviews and syntheses: Australian vegetation phenology: New insights from satellite remote sensing and digital repeat photography"	"Moore, Caitlin E. ; Brown, Tim ; Keenan, Trevor F. ; Duursma, Remko A. ; van Dijk, Albert I. J. M. ; Beringer, Jason ; Culvenor, Darius ; Evans, Bradley ; Huete, Alfredo ; Hutley, Lindsay B. ; Maier, Stefan ; Restrepo-Coupe, Natalia ; Sonnentag, Oliver ; Specht, Alison ; Taylor, Jeffrey R. ; van Gorsel, Eva ; Liddell, Michael J."	"Biogeosciences"	NA	NA	"Phenology is the study of periodic biological occurrences and can provide important insights into the influence of climatic variability and change on ecosystems. Understanding Australia's vegetation phenology is a challenge due to its diverse range of ecosystems, from savannas and tropical rainforests to temperate eucalypt woodlands, semi-arid scrublands and alpine grasslands. These ecosystems exhibit marked differences in seasonal patterns of canopy development and plant life-cycle events, much of which deviates from the predictable seasonal phenological pulse of temperate deciduous and boreal biomes. Many Australian ecosystems are subject to irregular events (i.e., drought, flooding, cyclones and fire) that can alter ecosystem composition, structure and functioning just as much as seasonal change. We show how satellite remote sensing and ground-based digital repeat photography (i.e. phenocams) can be used to improve understanding of phenology in Australian ecosystems. First, we examine temporal variation in phenology at the continental scale using the Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI), calculated from MODerate resolution Imaging Spectroradiomter (MODIS) data. Spatial gradients are revealed, ranging from regions with pronounced seasonality in canopy development (i.e., tropical savannas) to regions where seasonal variation is minimal (i.e., tropical rainforests) or high but irregular (i.e., arid ecosystems). Next, we use time series colour information extracted from phenocam imagery to illustrate a range of phenological signals in four contrasting Australian ecosystems. These include greening and senescing events in tropical savannas and temperate eucalypt understory, as well as strong seasonal dynamics of individual trees in a seemingly static evergreen rainforest. We also demonstrate how phenology links with ecosystem gross primary productivity (from eddy covariance) and discuss why these processes are linked in some ecosystems but not others. We conclude that phenocams have the potential to greatly improve current understanding of Australian ecosystems. To facilitate sharing of this information, we have formed the Australian Phenocam Network (http://phenocam.org.au/)."	"13"	"17"	"5085–5102"	NA	NA	NA	"10.5194/bg-13-5085-2016"	NA	"pubid: XeErXHja3Z8C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Global marine protected areas do not secure the evolutionary history of tropical corals and fishes"	"Mouillot, David ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Bellwood, David R. ; Leprieur, Fabien ; Huang, D. ; Cowman, Peter F. ; Albouy, Camille ; Hughes, T. P. ; Thuiller, Wilfried ; Guilhaumon, François"	"Nature Communications"	NA	NA	"Although coral reefs support the largest concentrations of marine biodiversity worldwide, the extent to which the global system of marine-protected areas (MPAs) represents individual species and the breadth of evolutionary history across the Tree of Life has never been quantified. Here we show that only 5.7% of scleractinian coral species and 21.7% of labrid fish species reach the minimum protection target of 10% of their geographic ranges within MPAs. We also estimate that the current global MPA system secures only 1.7% of the Tree of Life for corals, and 17.6% for fishes. Regionally, the Atlantic and Eastern Pacific show the greatest deficit of protection for corals while for fishes this deficit is located primarily in the Western Indian Ocean and in the Central Pacific. Our results call for a global coordinated expansion of current conservation efforts to fully secure the Tree of Life on coral reefs."	"7"	NA	"10359–10366"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/ncomms10359"	"http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26756609%0Ahttp://www.pubmedcentral.nih.gov/articlerender.fcgi?artid=PMC4729959"	"pubid: PklR0melJeUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Testing the generality of above-ground biomass allometry across plant functional types at the continent scale"	"Paul, Keryn I. ; Roxburgh, Stephen H. ; Chave, Jérôme ; England, Jacqueline R. ; Zerihun, Ayalsew ; Specht, Alison ; Lewis, Tom ; Bennett, Lauren T. ; Baker, Thomas G. ; Adams, Mark A. ; Huxtable, Dan ; Montagu, Kelvin D. ; Falster, Daniel S. ; Feller, Mike ; Sochacki, Stan ; Ritson, Peter ; Bastin, Gary ; Bartle, John ; Wildy, Daniel ; Hobbs, Trevor ; Larmour, John ; Waterworth, Rob ; Stewart, Hugh T. L. ; Jonson, Justin ; Forrester, David I. ; Applegate, Grahame ; Mendham, Daniel ; Bradford, Matt ; O'Grady, Anthony ; Green, Daryl ; Sudmeyer, Rob ; Rance, Stan J. ; Turner, John ; Barton, Craig V. M. ; Wenk, Elizabeth H. ; Grove, Tim ; Attiwill, Peter M. ; Pinkard, Elizabeth ; Butler, Don ; Brooksbank, Kim ; Spencer, Beren ; Snowdon, Peter ; O'Brien, Nick ; Battaglia, Michael ; Cameron, David M. ; Hamilton, Steve ; McAuthur, Geoff ; Sinclair, Jenny"	"Global Change Biology"	NA	NA	"Accurate ground-based estimation of the carbon stored in terrestrial ecosystems is critical to quantifying the global carbon budget. Allometric models provide cost-effective methods for biomass prediction. But do such models vary with ecoregion or plant functional type? We compiled 15,054 measurements of individual tree or shrub biomass from across Australia to examine the generality of allometric models for prediction above-ground biomass. This provided a robust case study because Australia includes ecoregions ranging from arid shrublands to tropical rainforests, and has a rich history of biomass research, particularly in planted forests. Regardless of ecoregion, for five broad categories of plant functional type (shrubs; multi-stemmed trees; trees of the genus Eucalyptus and closely related genera; other trees of high wood density; and other trees of low wood density), relationships between biomass and stem diameter were generic. Simple power-law models explained 84-95% of the variation in biomass, with little improvement in model performance when other plant variables (height, bole wood density), or site characteristics (climate, age, management) were included. Predictions of stand-based biomass from allometric models of varying levels of generalisation (species-specific, plant functional type) were validated using whole-plot harvest data from 17 contrasting stands (range: 9 to 356 Mg ha(-1) ). Losses in efficiency of prediction were ¡ 1% if generalised models were used in place of species-specific models. Furthermore, application of generalised multi-species models did not introduce significant bias in biomass prediction in 92% of the 53 species tested. Further, overall efficiency of stand-level biomass prediction was 99%, with a mean absolute prediction error of only 13%. Hence, for cost-effective prediction of biomass across a wide range of stands, we recommend use of generic allometric models based on plant functional types. Development of new species-specific models is only warranted when gains in accuracy of stand-based predictions are relatively high (e.g. high-value monocultures). This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved."	"22"	"6"	"2106–2124"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/gcb.13201"	NA	"pubid: TeJ9juy8vcMC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Dynamics of earthworm taxonomic and functional diversity in ploughed and no-tilled cropping systems"	"Pelosi, Céline ; Pey, Benjamin ; Caro, Gaël ; Cluzeau, Daniel ; Peigné, J. ; Bertrand, Michel ; Hedde, Mickaël"	"Soil and Tillage Research"	NA	NA	"No-till has been proposed to limit the negative impacts of intensive agriculture. Soil organisms such as earthworms are good indicators of soil tillage effects. The aim of this study was to assess the dynamics of both taxonomic and functional diversity of earthworm communities after switching from ploughing i.e. deep tillage at 25-30. cm depth inducing soil inversion in this paper, to no-till. We assumed (i) that this transition led to increased diversity and (ii) that both taxonomic and functional indices indicated changes in tillage practices. Earthworms were sampled at three experimental sites in France on a Cambisol, a Luvisol, and a Fluvisol over several years (from 1995 to 2011), comparing both tillage systems. Standardized mean differences (Cohen's indices) were calculated on several taxonomic and functional indices to quantify the influence of tillage practices within each site. We generally found a neutral or positive effect of the no-till on taxonomic and functional indices. The temporal responses of earthworm diversity were stronger in earliest stages (less than 6 years) than in oldest ones (more than 8 years) revealing transitory effects on diversity. In site III, for instance, a positive effect of no-till was observed on species and functional richness during the first 5 years but a negative effect was shown in year 6. Thus, no clear continuous increase of taxonomic and functional diversity was found in no-tilled fields, but positive and negative effects according to sites and years. More marked differences were found for taxonomic than for functional indices, suggesting that individuals settling the fields shared a similar combination of functional traits to those previously present. As transitory effects have been observed, this study highlighted that long-term trials are needed to assess the effects of cropping systems on earthworm biodiversity."	"156"	NA	"25–32"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.still.2015.07.016"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.still.2015.07.016"	"pubid: GUYAmugLYisC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"A regionally informed abundance index for supporting integrative analyses across butterfly monitoring schemes"	"Schmucki, Reto ; Pe'er, Guy ; Roy, David B. ; Stefanescu, Constantí ; van Swaay, Chris A. M. ; Oliver, Tom H. ; Kuussaari, Mikko ; van Strien, Arco J. ; Ries, Leslie ; Settele, Josef ; Musche, Martin ; Carnicer, Jofre ; Schweiger, Oliver ; Brereton, Tom M. ; Harpke, Alexander ; Heliölä, Janne ; Kühn, Elisabeth ; Julliard, Romain"	"Journal of Applied Ecology"	NA	NA	"1. The rapid expansion of systematic monitoring schemes necessitates robust methods to reli- ably assess species' status and trends. Insect monitoring poses a challenge where there are strong seasonal patterns, requiring repeated counts to reliably assess abundance. Butterfly monitoring schemes (BMSs) operate in an increasing number of countries with broadly the same methodology, yet they differ in their observation frequency and in the methods used to compute annual abundance indices. 2. Using simulated and observed data, we performed an extensive comparison of two approaches used to derive abundance indices from count data collected via BMS, under a range of sampling frequencies. Linear interpolation is most commonly used to estimate abundance indices from sea- sonal count series. A second method, hereafter the regional generalized additive model (GAM), fits aGAMto repeated counts within sites across a climatic region. For the two methods, we esti- mated bias in abundance indices and the statistical power for detecting trends, given different pro- portions of missing counts. We also compared the accuracy of trend estimates using systematically degraded observed counts of the Gatekeeper Pyronia tithonus (Linnaeus 1767). 3. The regional GAM method generally outperforms the linear interpolation method. When the proportion of missing counts increased beyond 50%, indices derived via the linear inter- polation method showed substantially higher estimation error as well as clear biases, in com- parison to the regional GAM method. The regional GAM method also showed higher power to detect trends when the proportion of missing counts was substantial. 4. Synthesis and applications. Monitoring offers invaluable data to support conservation pol- icy and management, but requires robust analysis approaches and guidance for new and expanding schemes. Based on our findings, we recommend the regional generalized additive model approach when conducting integrative analyses across schemes, or when analysing scheme data with reduced sampling efforts. This method enables existing schemes to be expanded or new schemes to be developed with reduced within-year sampling frequency, as well as affording options to adapt protocols to more efficiently assess species status and trends across large geographical scales."	"53"	"2"	"501–510"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/1365-2664.12561"	"https://besjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/1365-2664.12561"	"pubid: lSLsV1MU4ZUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Effects of farmer social status and plant biocultural value on seed circulation networks in Vanuatu"	"Thomas, Mathieu ; Caillon, Sophie"	"Ecology and Society"	NA	NA	"Seed circulation among farmers, which is embedded in composite social networks, is a key process in the dynamics of seed systems that shape crop diversity. We analyzed the daily circulation of biological objects, i.e., cultivated plants (31 species, 284 landraces), within a community of first-generation migrants (16 households, 30 persons) living on the island of Vanua Lava in the South Pacific archipelago nation of Vanuatu. By combining participant observation, ethnobiological inventories, and social network analysis, we investigated how farmer social status and plant biocultural value affect plant circulation. Plant biocultural value was estimated by referring to their local classification according to uses, cultivation practices, growing environments, and biological properties. An aggregate plant circulation network (577 events) and three subnetworks (i.e., for starchy, side dish, or snack food categories) sharing the same 30 nodes were analyzed using exponential random graph models. Evidence that farmer social status influences the patterns of plant circulation was found through the distribution of structural parameters of the network, including: dyadic reciprocity; in-degree, out-degree, and their correlation; triadic cycling; and transitivity. At the scale of the aggregate network, direct or indirect reciprocity was not observed. Instead, a high out-degree (i.e., being a more frequent giver) and a negative correlation between in-degree and out-degree both confer prestige and reinforce hierarchy. These results suggest that some of the social dynamics of the Melanesian-type Big Man political system may persist, even though the system itself no longer exists in traditional form. Moreover, based on our comparative analysis of the three subnetworks, farmer social status appears to influence greatly the circulation of plants with high biocultural value while having little influence on plants with low biocultural value. Farmer social status and plant biocultural value (following their local classification) are important factors for understanding the social rules shaping seed circulation. © 2016 by the author(s)."	"21"	"2"	"13"	NA	NA	NA	"10.5751/ES-08378-210213"	NA	"pubid: p-HGrieyzrAC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Good year, bad year: Changing strategies, changing networks? A two-year study on seed acquisition in northern Cameroon"	"Violon, Chloé ; Thomas, Mathieu ; Garine, Eric"	"Ecology and Society"	NA	NA	"Analysis of seed exchange networks at a single point in time may reify sporadic relations into apparently fixed and longlasting ones. In northern Cameroon, where environment is not only strongly seasonal but also shows unpredictable interannual variation, farmers' social networks are flexible from year to year. When adjusting their strategies, Tupuri farmers do not systematically solicit the same partners to acquire the desired propagules. Seed acquisitions documented during a single cropping season may thus not accurately reflect the underlying larger social network that can be mobilized at the local level. To test this hypothesis, we documented, at the outset of two cropping seasons (2010 and 2011), the relationships through which seeds were acquired by the members of 16 households in a Tupuri community. In 2011, farmers faced sudden failure of the rains and had to solicit distant relatives, highlighting their ability to quickly trigger specific social relations to acquire necessary seeding material. Observing the same set of individuals during two successive years and the seed sources they solicited in each year enabled us to discriminate repeated relations from sporadic ones. Although farmers did not acquire seeds from the same individuals from one year to the next, they relied on quite similar relational categories of people. However, the worse weather conditions during the second year led to (1) a shift from red sorghum seeds to pearl millet seeds, (2) a geographical extension of the network, and (3) an increased participation of women in seed acquisitions. In critical situations, women mobilized their own kin almost exclusively. We suggest that studying the seed acquisition network over a single year provides a misrepresentation of the underlying social network. Depending on the difficulties farmers face, they may occasionally call on relationships that transcend the local relationships used each year."	"21"	"2"	"34"	NA	NA	NA	"10.5751/ES-08376-210234"	NA	"pubid: Dmoar05iI2YC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016"	"Interhousehold variability and its effects on seed circulation networks: A case study from northern Cameroon"	"Wencélius, Jean ; Thomas, Mathieu ; Barbillon, Pierre ; Garine, Eric"	"Ecology and Society"	NA	NA	"We present a detailed ethnographic case study of sorghum seed acquisitions in a smallholder farming society in northern Cameroon. The effects of variability in household demographics and socioeconomic status on observed patterns of seed provisioning are explored alongside other variables such as age and gender. Our data set comprised 223 seed acquisition events. Independence tests (Pearson's chi-square and Fisher's exact tests) were carried out to test for significant dependencies between individual- or household-level characteristics and properties of seed acquisition events (categories of seed source, social relationship of exchange, and type of landrace). Results indicate that wealth is a structuring factor of the local seed circulation network in as much as it is highly correlated with household composition and size. Members from wealthy households benefit from a more diverse set of seed sources. Their greater number of coresidents and the importance of intrahousehold dynamics of seed transactions also play a role in making wealthy farmers more seed secure than others. The methodological implications of our findings indicate that when documenting seed exchange networks, the collection of data through a single informant or the undertaking of social network analyses at the household level may induce important biases."	"21"	"1"	"44"	NA	NA	NA	"10.5751/ES-08208-210144"	NA	"pubid: zfsRRabFVBUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2016-05"	"Butterfly assemblages in residential gardens are driven by species' habitat preference and mobility"	"Olivier, Théophile ; Schmucki, Reto ; Fontaine, Benoît ; Villemey, Anne ; Archaux, Frédéric"	"Landscape Ecology"	NA	NA	"Understanding the factors contributing to maintaining biodiversity is crucial to mitigate the impact of anthropogenic disturbances. Representing large proportions of green area in highly modified landscapes, residential gardens are often seen as local habitats that can contribute to larger networks of suitable environments at the landscape scale."	"31"	"4"	"865–876"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1007/s10980-015-0299-9"	"https://doi.org/10.1007/s10980-015-0299-9"	"pubid: bkKuixWₓMkC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Shifts and linkages of functional diversity between above- and below-ground compartments along a flooding gradient"	"Abgrall, Corentin ; Chauvat, Matthieu ; Langlois, Estelle ; Hedde, Mickaël ; Mouillot, David ; Salmon, Sandrine ; Winck, Bruna ; Forey, Estelle"	"Functional Ecology"	NA	NA	"1. Trait-based approaches have the potential to reveal general and predictive relationships between organisms and ecosystem functioning. However, the mechanisms underlying the func- tional structure of communities are still unclear. Within terrestrial ecosystems, several studies have shown that many ecological processes are controlled by the interacting above- and below- ground compartments. However, few studies have used traits to reveal the functional relation- ships between plants and soil fauna. Mostly, research combining plants and soil fauna solely used the traits of one assemblage in predictive studies. 2. Above-ground (plants) and below-ground (Collembola) compartments were sampled over a flooding gradient in northern France along the Seine River. First, we measured the effect of flooding on functional and taxonomic assembly within both communities. We then considered the linkages between plant and Collembolan species richness, community traits and assessed whether traits of both compartments converged at high flooding intensity (abiotic filtering) and diverged when this constraint is released (biotic filtering). 3. Species richness of both taxa followed the same bell-shaped pattern along the gradient, while a similar significant pattern of functional richness was only observed for plants. Further analyses revealed a progressive shift from trait convergence to divergence for plants, but not for Collembola, as constraints intensity decreased. Instead, our results highlighted that Collem- bola traits were mainly linked to the variations in plant traits. This leads, within Collembola assemblages, to convergence of a subset of perception and habitat-related traits for which the relationship with plant traits was assessed. 4. Synthesis. Using a trait-based approach, our study highlighted that functional relationships occur between above- and below-ground compartments.We underlined that functional compo- sition of plant communities plays a key role in structuring Collembola assemblages in addition to the role of abiotic variables. Our study clearly shows that functional diversity provides a new approach to link the above- and below-ground compartments and might, therefore, be further considered when studying ecological processes at the interface between both compart- ments. Key-words:"	"31"	"2"	"350–360"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/1365-2435.12718"	NA	"pubid: U3qCfcK-7lkC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Chapter 3 - Importance of microorganisms to macroorganisms invasions: Is the essential invisible to the eye? (The Little Prince, A. de Saint-Exupéry, 1943)"	"Amsellem, L. ; Brouat, C. ; Duron, O. ; Porter, S. S. ; Vilcinskas, A. ; Facon, B."	NA	"Networks of invasion: Empirical evidence and case studies"	"Bohan, David A ; Dumbrell, Alex J ; Massol, François"	"Microorganisms comprise the majority of earth's biodiversity and are integral to biosphere processes. Biological invasions are no exception to this trend. The success of introduced macroorganisms can be deeply influenced by diverse microorganisms (bacteria, virus, fungus and protozoa) occupying the whole range of species interaction outcomes, from parasitism to obligate mutualism. This large range of interactions, often coupled with complex historical and introduction events, can result in a wide variety of ecological dynamics. In this chapter, we review different situations in which microorganisms affect biological invasions. First, we consider outcomes of microorganism loss during the introduction of alien species. Second, we discuss positive effects of microorganisms on the invasiveness of their exotic hosts. Third, we examine the influence of microorganisms hosted by native species on the success of introduced species. Finally, in an applied perspective, we envisage how microorganisms can be used (i) to better decipher invasion processes and (ii) as biological control agents."	"57"	NA	"99–146"	"Advances in Ecological Research (Vol. 57)"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	"http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S006525041630054X"	"pubid: KsTgnNRry18C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Species range expansion constrains the ecological niches of resident butterflies"	"Audusseau, Hélène ; Le Vaillant, Maryline ; Janz, Niklas ; Nylin, Sören ; Karlsson, Bengt ; Schmucki, Reto"	"Journal of Biogeography"	NA	NA	"Aim Changes in community composition resulting from environmental changes modify biotic interactions and affect the distribution and density of local populations. Such changes are currently occurring in nettle-feeding butterflies in Sweden where Araschnia levana has recently expanded its range northward and is now likely to interact with resident species (Aglais urticae and Aglais io). Butterfly occurrence data collected over years and across regions enabled us to investigate how a recent range expansion of A. levana may have affected the environmental niche of resident species. Location We focused on two regions of Sweden (Skåne and Norrström) where A. levana has and has not established and two time periods (2001–2006 and 2009–2012) during its establishment in Skåne. Methods We performed two distinct analyses in each region using the PCA-env and the framework described in Broennimann et al. (2012). First, we described the main sources of variation in the environment. Second, in each time period and region, we characterized the realized niches of our focal species across topographic and land use gradients. Third, we quantified overlaps and differences in realized niches between and within species over time. Results In Skåne, A. levana has stabilized its distribution over time, while the distribution of the native species has shifted. These shifts depicted a consistent pattern of avoiding overlap between the native species and the environmental space occupied by A. levana, and it was stronger for A. urticae than for A. io. In both regions, we also found evidence of niche partitioning between native species. Main conclusions Interspecific interactions are likely to affect local species distributions. It appears that the ongoing establishment of A. levana has modified local biotic interactions and induced shifts in resident species distributions. Among the mechanisms that can explain such patterns of niche partitioning, parasitoid-driven apparent competition may play an important role in this community."	"44"	"1"	"28–38"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/jbi.12787"	"https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/jbi.12787"	"pubid: DwWRdx-KAo4C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Synthesis centers as critical research infrastructure"	"Baron, Jill S. ; Specht, Alison ; Garnier, Eric ; Bishop, Pamela ; Campbell, C. Andrew ; Davis, Frank W. ; Fady, Bruno ; Field, Dawn ; Gross, Louis J. ; Guru, Siddeswara M. ; Halpern, Benjamin S. ; Hampton, Stephanie E. ; Leavitt, Peter R. ; Meagher, Thomas R. ; Ometto, Jean ; Parker, John N. ; Price, Richard ; Rawson, Casey H. ; Rodrigo, Allen ; Sheble, Laura A. ; Winter, Marten"	"BioScience"	NA	NA	"Synthesis centers offer a unique amalgam of culture, infrastructure, leadership, and support that facilitates creative discovery on issues crucial to science and society. The combination of logistical support, postdoctoral or senior fellowships, complex data management, informatics and computing capability or expertise, and most of all, opportunity for group discussion and reflection lowers the “activation energy” necessary to promote creativity and the cross-fertilization of ideas. Synthesis centers are explicitly created and operated as community-oriented infrastructure, with scholarly directions driven by the ever-changing interests and needs of an open and inclusive scientific community. The last decade has seen a rise in the number of synthesis centers globally but also the end of core federal funding for several, challenging the sustainability of the infrastructure for this key research strategy. Here, we present the history and rationale for supporting synthesis centers, integrate insights arising from two decades of experience, and explore the challenges and opportunities for long-term sustainability."	"67"	"8"	"750–759"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1093/biosci/bix053"	NA	"pubid: vofGIMt6cyEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"The Saturniidae of Barro Colorado Island, Panama: A model taxon for studying the long-term effects of climate change?"	"Basset, Yves ; Lamarre, Greg P. A. ; Ratz, Tom ; Segar, Simon T. ; Decaëns, Thibaud ; Rougerie, Rodolphe ; Miller, Scott E. ; Perez, Filonila ; Bobadilla, Ricardo ; Lopez, Yacksecari ; Ramirez, José Alejandro ; Aiello, Annette ; Barrios, Héctor"	"Ecology and Evolution"	NA	NA	"We have little knowledge of the response of invertebrate assemblages to climate change in tropical ecosystems, and few studies have compiled long-term data on invertebrates from tropical rainforests. We provide an updated list of the 72 species of Saturniidae moths collected on Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama, during the period 1958-2016. This list will serve as baseline data for assessing long-term changes of saturniids on BCI in the future, as 81% of the species can be identified by their unique DNA Barcode Index Number, including four cryptic species not yet formally described. A local species pool of 60 + species breeding on BCI appears plausible, but more cryptic species may be discovered in the future. We use monitoring data obtained by light trapping to analyze recent population trends on BCI for saturniid species that were relatively common during 2009-2016, a period representing ¿30 saturniid generations. The abundances of 11 species, of 14 tested, could be fitted to significant time-series models. While the direction of change in abundance was uncertain for most species, two species showed a significant increase over time, and forecast models also suggested continuing increases for most species during 2017-2018, as compared to the 2009 base year. Peaks in saturniid abundance were most conspicuous during El Niño and La Niña years. In addition to a species-specific approach, we propose a reproducible functional classification based on five functional traits to analyze the responses of species sharing similar functional attributes in a fluctuating climate. Our results suggest that the abundances of larger body-size species with good dispersal abilities may increase concomitantly with rising air temperature in the future, because short-lived adults may allocate less time to increasing body temperature for flight, leaving more time available for searching for mating partners or suitable oviposition sites."	"7"	"23"	"9991–10004"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1002/ece3.3515"	NA	"pubid: 1paMEeroeoQC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Isolation drives taxonomic and functional nestedness in tropical reef fish faunas"	"Bender, Mariana G. ; Leprieur, Fabien ; Mouillot, David ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Pie, Marcio R. ; Barneche, Diego R. ; Oliveira-Santos, Luiz Gustavo R. ; Floeter, Sergio R."	"Ecography"	NA	NA	"Taxonomic nestedness, the degree to which the taxonomic composition of species-poor assemblages represents a subset of richer sites, commonly occurs in habitat fragments and islands differing in size and isolation from a source pool. However, species are not ecologically equivalent and the extent to which nestedness is observed in terms of functional trait composi- tion of assemblages still remains poorly known. Here, using an extensive database on the functional traits and the distribu- tions of 6316 tropical reef fish species across 169 sites, we assessed the levels of taxonomical vs functional nestedness of reef fish assemblages at the global scale. Functional nestedness was considerably more common than taxonomic nestedness, and generally associated with geographical isolation, where nested subsets are gradually more isolated from surrounding reef areas and from the center of biodiversity. Because a nested pattern in functional composition implies that certain combina- tions of traits may be represented by few species, we identified these groups of low redundancy that include large herbivore- detritivores and omnivores, small piscivores, and macro-algal herbivores. The identified patterns of nestedness may be an outcome of the interaction between species dispersal capabilities, resource requirements, and gradients of isolation among habitats. The importance of isolation in generating the observed pattern of functional nestedness within biogeographic regions may indicate that disturbance in depauperate and isolated sites can have disproportionate effects on the functional structure of their reef fish assemblages."	"40"	"3"	"425–435"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ecog.02293"	NA	"pubid: uQVPmWFBlwUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"New approaches for delineating n-dimensional hypervolumes"	"Blonder, Benjamin ; Morrow, Cecina Babich ; Maitner, Brian S. ; Harris, David J. ; Lamanna, Christine ; Violle, Cyrille ; Enquist, Brian J. ; Kerkhoff, Andrew J."	"Methods in Ecology and Evolution"	NA	NA	"Introduction: D-dimer assay, generally evaluated according to cutoff points calibrated for VTE exclusion, is used to estimate the individual risk of recurrence after a first idiopathic event of venous thromboembolism (VTE). Methods: Commercial D-dimer assays, evaluated according to predetermined cutoff levels for each assay, specific for age (lower in subjects ¡70 years) and gender (lower in males), were used in the recent DULCIS study. The present analysis compared the results obtained in the DULCIS with those that might have been had using the following different cutoff criteria: traditional cutoff for VTE exclusion, higher levels in subjects aged ≥60 years, or age multiplied by 10. Results: In young subjects, the DULCIS low cutoff levels resulted in half the recurrent events that would have occurred using the other criteria. In elderly patients, the DULCIS results were similar to those calculated for the two age-adjusted criteria. The adoption of traditional VTE exclusion criteria would have led to positive results in the large majority of elderly subjects, without a significant reduction in the rate of recurrent event. Conclusion: The results confirm the usefulness of the cutoff levels used in DULCIS."	"9"	"2"	"305–319"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/2041-210X.12865"	NA	"pubid: RVqaWcrwK10C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Plant community structure and nitrogen inputs modulate the climate signal on leaf traits"	"Borgy, Benjamin ; Violle, Cyrille ; Choler, Philippe ; Denelle, Pierre ; Munoz, François ; Kattge, Jens ; Lavorel, Sandra ; Loranger, Jessy ; Amiaud, Bernard ; Bahn, Michael ; van Bodegom, Peter M. ; Brisse, Henry ; Debarros, Guilhem ; Diquelou, Sylvain ; Gachet, Sophie ; Jolivet, Claudy ; Lemauviel-Lavenant, Servane ; Mikolajczak, Alexis ; Olivier, Jean ; Ordoñez, Jenny ; de Ruffray, Patrice ; Viovy, Nicolas ; Garnier, Eric"	"Global Ecology and Biogeography"	NA	NA	"Abstract Aim Leaf traits strongly impact biogeochemical cycles in terrestrial ecosystems. Understanding leaf trait variation along environmental gradients is thus essential to improve the representation of vegetation in Earth system models. Our aims were to quantify relationships between leaf traits and climate in permanent grasslands at a biogeographical scale and to test whether these relationships were sensitive to (a) the level of nitrogen inputs and (b) the inclusion of information pertaining to plant community organization. Location Permanent grasslands throughout France. Methods We combined existing datasets on climate, soil, nitrogen inputs (fertilization and deposition), species composition and four traits, namely specific leaf area, leaf dry matter content and leaf nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations, for 15,865 French permanent grasslands. Trait–climate relationships were tested using the following four climatic variables available across 1,833 pixels (5 km × 5 km): mean annual temperature (MAT) and precipitation (MAP), and two indices accounting for the length of the growing season. We compared these relationships at the pixel level using either using community-level or species' trait means. Results Our findings were as follows: (a) leaf traits related to plant nutrient economy shift consistently along a gradient of growing season length accounting for temperature and soil water limitations of plant growth (GSLtw); (b) weighting leaf traits by species abundance in local communities is pivotal to capture leaf trait–environment relationships correctly at a biogeographical scale; and (c) the relationships between traits and GSLtw weaken for grasslands with a high nitrogen input. Main conclusions The effects of climate on plant communities are better described using composite descriptors than coarse variables such as MAT or MAP, but appear weaker for high-nitrogen grasslands. Using information at the community level tends to strengthen trait–climate relationships. The interplay of land management, community assembly and bioclimate appears crucial to the prediction of leaf trait variations and their effects on biogeochemical cycles."	"26"	"10"	"1138–1152"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/geb.12623"	"https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/geb.12623"	"pubid: mJbmKSuM8toC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Sensitivity of community-level trait–environment relationships to data representativeness: A test for functional biogeography"	"Borgy, Benjamin ; Violle, Cyrille ; Choler, Philippe ; Garnier, Eric ; Kattge, Jens ; Loranger, Jessy ; Amiaud, Bernard ; Cellier, Pierre ; Debarros, Guilhem ; Denelle, Pierre ; Diquelou, Sylvain ; Gachet, Sophie ; Jolivet, Claudy ; Lavorel, Sandra ; Lemauviel-Lavenant, Servane ; Mikolajczak, Alexis ; Munoz, François ; Olivier, Jean ; Viovy, Nicolas"	"Global Ecology and Biogeography"	NA	NA	"Abstract Aim The characterization of trait–environment relationships over broad-scale gradients is a critical goal for ecology and biogeography. This implies the merging of plot and trait databases to assess community-level trait-based statistics. Potential shortcomings and limitations of this approach are that: (i) species traits are not measured where the community is sampled and (ii) the availability of trait data varies considerably across species and plots. Here we address the effect of trait data representativeness [the sampling effort per species and per plot] on the accuracy of (i) species-level and (ii) community-level trait estimates and (iii) the consequences for the shape and strength of trait–environment relationships across communities. Innovation We combined information existing in databases of vegetation plots and plant traits to estimate community-weighted means [CWMs] of four key traits [specific leaf area, plant height, seed mass and leaf nitrogen content per dry mass] in permanent grasslands at a country-wide scale. We propose a generic approach for systematic sensitivity analyses based on random subsampling and data reduction to address the representativeness of incomplete and heterogeneous trait information when exploring trait–environment relationships across communities. Main conclusions The accuracy of the CWMs was little affected by the number of individual trait values per species [NIV] but strongly affected by the cover proportion of species with available trait values [PCover]. A PCover above 80% was required for all four traits studied to obtain an estimation bias below 5%. Our approach therefore provides more conservative criteria than previously proposed. Restrictive criteria on both NIV and PCover primarily excluded communities in harsh environments, and such reduction of the sampled gradient weakened trait–environment relationships. These findings advocate systematic measurement campaigns in natural environments to increase species coverage in global trait databases, with special emphasis on species occurring in under-sampled and harsh environmental conditions."	"26"	"6"	"729–739"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/geb.12573"	"https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/geb.12573"	"pubid: UarirCmVI0EC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Bioinvasion triggers rapid evolution of life histories in freshwater snails"	"Chapuis, Elodie ; Lamy, Thomas ; Pointier, Jean-Pierre ; Juillet, Nicolas ; Ségard, Adeline ; Jarne, Philippe ; David, Patrice"	"The American Naturalist"	NA	NA	"Biological invasions offer interesting situations for observing how novel interactions between closely related, formerly allopatric species may trigger phenotypic evolution in situ. Assuming that successful invaders are usually filtered to be competitively dominant, invasive and native species may follow different trajectories. Natives may evolve traits that minimize the negative impact of competition, while trait shifts in invasives should mostly reflect expansion dynamics, through selection for colonization ability and transiently enhanced mutation load at the colonization front. These ideas were tested through a large-scale common-garden experiment measuring life-history traits in two closely related snail species, one invasive and one native, co-occurring in a network of freshwater ponds in Guadeloupe. We looked for evidence of recent evolution by comparing uninvaded or recently invaded sites with long-invaded ones. The native species adopted a life history favoring rapid population growth (i.e., increased fecundity, earlier reproduction, and increased juvenile survival) that may increase its prospects of coexistence with the more competitive invader. We discuss why these effects are more likely to result from genetic change than from maternal effects. The invader exhibited slightly decreased overall performances in recently colonized sites, consistent with a moderate expansion load resulting from local founder effects. Our study highlights a rare example of rapid life-history evolution following invasion."	"190"	"5"	"694–706"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1086/693854"	NA	"pubid: FQ36aIS1AEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Chapter 5.1 - Anthropogenic threats to intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams"	"Chiu, Ming-Chiu ; Leigh, Catherine ; Mazor, Raphael ; Cid, Nuria ; Resh, Vincent"	NA	"Intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams"	"Datry, Thibault ; Bonada, Núria ; Boulton, Andrew J."	NA	NA	NA	"433–454"	"Ecology and Management"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	NA	"pubid: sfsSB7lKuh0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Chapter 2.2 - Flow regimes in intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams"	"Costigan, Katie H. ; Kennard, Mark J. ; Leigh, Catherine ; Sauquet, Eric ; Datry, Thibault ; Boulton, Andrew J."	NA	"Intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams"	"Datry, Thibault ; Bonada, Núria ; Boulton, Andrew J."	"The geomorphology and sediment regimes of intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams (IRES) are extremely diverse, owing in large part to the substantial spatiotemporal variability of the associated hydrological regimes. We describe the geomorphological character and sediment transport processes along IRES within the context of four geomorphological zones-upland, piedmont, lowland, and floodout-to illustrate the underpinning longitudinal trends of sediment production, transfer, and deposition that exist at the landscape scale. Many geomorphological features of IRES tend to be spatially discontinuous as a result of extended no or low-flow conditions that are punctuated by high-magnitude flood events. Diversity of geomorphology and sediment regimes both within and between the four geomorphological zones therefore promotes ecological processes and patterns in IRES that can be very distinct from perennial river systems."	NA	NA	"51–78"	"Ecology and Management"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	NA	"pubid: JIEWM9yDoCIC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Attitudes and norms affecting scientists' data reuse"	"Curty, Renata Gonçalves ; Crowston, Kevin ; Specht, Alison ; Grant, Bruce W. ; Dalton, Elizabeth D."	"PLoS ONE"	NA	NA	"The value of sharing scientific research data is widely appreciated, but factors that hinder or prompt the reuse of data remain poorly understood. Using the Theory of Reasoned Action, we test the relationship between the beliefs and attitudes of scientists towards data reuse, and their self-reported data reuse behaviour. To do so, we used existing responses to selected questions from a worldwide survey of scientists developed and administered by the DataONE Usability and Assessment Working Group (thus practicing data reuse ourselves). Results show that the perceived efficacy and efficiency of data reuse are strong predictors of reuse behaviour, and that the perceived importance of data reuse corresponds to greater reuse. Expressed lack of trust in existing data and perceived norms against data reuse were not found to be major impediments for reuse contrary to our expectations. We found that reported use of models and remotely-sensed data was associated with greater reuse. The results suggest that data reuse would be encouraged and normalized by demonstration of its value. We offer some theoretical and practical suggestions that could help to legitimize investment and policies in favor of data sharing."	"12"	"12"	"1–22"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1371/journal.pone.0189288"	NA	"pubid: TiIbgCYny7sC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Chapter 1 - General introduction"	"Datry, Thibault ; Bonada, Núria ; Boulton, Andrew J."	NA	"Intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams"	"Datry, Thibault ; Bonada, Núria ; Boulton, Andrew J."	"The geomorphology and sediment regimes of intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams (IRES) are extremely diverse, owing in large part to the substantial spatiotemporal variability of the associated hydrological regimes. We describe the geomorphological character and sediment transport processes along IRES within the context of four geomorphological zones-upland, piedmont, lowland, and floodout-to illustrate the underpinning longitudinal trends of sediment production, transfer, and deposition that exist at the landscape scale. Many geomorphological features of IRES tend to be spatially discontinuous as a result of extended no or low-flow conditions that are punctuated by high-magnitude flood events. Diversity of geomorphology and sediment regimes both within and between the four geomorphological zones therefore promotes ecological processes and patterns in IRES that can be very distinct from perennial river systems."	NA	NA	"1–20"	"Ecology and Management"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	NA	"pubid: DwFgw5hZUzMC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Chapter 6 - Conclusions: Recent advances and future prospects in the ecology and management of intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams"	"Datry, Thibault ; Bonada, Núria ; Boulton, Andrew J."	NA	"Intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams"	"Datry, Thibault ; Bonada, Núria ; Boulton, Andrew J."	"The geomorphology and sediment regimes of intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams (IRES) are extremely diverse, owing in large part to the substantial spatiotemporal variability of the associated hydrological regimes. We describe the geomorphological character and sediment transport processes along IRES within the context of four geomorphological zones-upland, piedmont, lowland, and floodout-to illustrate the underpinning longitudinal trends of sediment production, transfer, and deposition that exist at the landscape scale. Many geomorphological features of IRES tend to be spatially discontinuous as a result of extended no or low-flow conditions that are punctuated by high-magnitude flood events. Diversity of geomorphology and sediment regimes both within and between the four geomorphological zones therefore promotes ecological processes and patterns in IRES that can be very distinct from perennial river systems."	NA	NA	"563–584"	"Ecology and Management"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	NA	"pubid: Pqt4MY₂vwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"ConR: An R package to assist large-scale multispecies preliminary conservation assessments using distribution data"	"Dauby, Gilles ; Stévart, Tariq ; Droissart, Vincent ; Cosiaux, Ariane ; Deblauwe, Vincent ; Simo-Droissart, Murielle ; Sosef, Marc S. M. ; Lowry, Porter P. ; Schatz, George E. ; Gereau, Roy E. ; Couvreur, Thomas L. P."	"Ecology and Evolution"	NA	NA	"The Red List Categories and the accompanying five criteria developed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) provide an authoritative and comprehensive methodology to assess the conservation status of organisms. Red List criterion B, which principally uses distribution data, is the most widely used to assess conservation status, particularly of plant species. No software package has previously been available to perform large-scale multispecies calculations of the three main criterion B parameters [extent of occurrence (EOO), area of occupancy (AOO) and an estimate of the number of locations] and provide preliminary conservation assessments using an automated batch process. We developed ConR, a dedicated R package, as a rapid and efficient tool to conduct large numbers of preliminary assessments, thereby facilitating complete Red List assessment. ConR (1) calculates key geographic range parameters (AOO and EOO) and estimates the number of locations sensu IUCN needed for an assessment under criterion B; (2) uses this information in a batch process to generate preliminary assessments of multiple species; (3) summarize the parameters and preliminary assessments in a spreadsheet; and (4) provides a visualization of the results by generating maps suitable for the submission of full assessments to the IUCN Red List. ConR can be used for any living organism for which reliable georeferenced distribution data are available. As distributional data for taxa become increasingly available via large open access datasets, ConR provides a novel, timely tool to guide and accelerate the work of the conservation and taxonomic communities by enabling practitioners to conduct preliminary assessments simultaneously for hundreds or even thousands of species in an efficient and time-saving way."	"7"	"24"	"11292–11303"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1002/ece3.3704"	NA	"pubid: -qpA3cGbmHsC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Chapter 1 - Impacts of invasive species on food webs: A review of empirical data"	"David, Patrice ; Thébault, Elodie ; Anneville, Orlane ; Duyck, P.-F. ; Chapuis, Elodie ; Loeuille, N."	NA	"Networks of invasion: A synthesis of concepts"	"Bohan, David A ; Dumbrell, Alex J ; Massol, François"	"We review empirical studies on how bioinvasions alter food webs and how a food-web perspective may change their prediction and management. Predation is found to underlie the most spectacular damage in invaded systems, sometimes cascading down to primary producers. Indirect trophic effects (exploitative and apparent competition) also affect native species, but rarely provoke extinctions, while invaders often have positive bottom-up effects on higher trophic levels. As a result of these trophic interactions, and of nontrophic ones such as mutualisms or ecosystem engineering, invasions can profoundly modify the structure of the entire food web. While few studies have been undertaken at this scale, those that have highlight how network properties such as species richness, phenotypic diversity, and functional diversity, limit the likelihood and impacts of invasions by saturating niche space. Vulnerable communities have unsaturated niche space mainly because of evolutionary history in isolation (islands), dispersal limitation, or anthropogenic disturbance. Evolution also modulates the insertion of invaders into a food web. Exotics and natives are evolutionarily new to one another, and invasion tends to retain alien species that happen to have advantage over residents in trophic interactions. Resident species, therefore, often rapidly evolve traits to better tolerate or exploit invaders—a process that may eventually restore more balanced food webs and prevent extinctions. We discuss how network-based principles might guide management policies to better live with invaders, rather than to undertake the daunting (and often illusory) task of eradicating them one by one."	"56"	NA	"1–60"	"Advances in Ecological Research (Vol. 56)"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	"http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0065250416300502"	"pubid: oFn-K-OQSCAC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"De qui les variétés traditionnelles de plantes cultivées pourraient-elles être le patrimoine ? Réflexions depuis le bassin du lac Tchad"	"Garine, Eric ; Luxereau, Anne ; Wencélius, Jean ; Violon, Chloé ; Robert, Thierry ; Barnaud, Adeline ; Caillon, Sophie ; Raimond, Christine"	NA	"Effervescence patrimoniale au sud : Entre nature et société"	"Juhé-Beaulaton, D. ; Cormier-Salem, M. ; de Robert, P. ; Roussel, B."	NA	NA	NA	"379–409"	"IRD Éditions"	"Marseille, France"	NA	NA	NA	"pubid: i8eIfGGcn98C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Towards a thesaurus of plant characteristics: an ecological contribution"	"Garnier, Eric ; Stahl, Ulrike ; Laporte, Marie-Angélique ; Kattge, Jens ; Mougenot, Isabelle ; Kühn, Ingolf ; Laporte, Baptiste ; Amiaud, Bernard ; Ahrestani, Farshid S. ; Bönisch, Gerhard ; Bunker, Daniel E. ; Cornelissen, J. Hans C. ; Díaz, Sandra ; Enquist, Brian J. ; Gachet, Sophie ; Jaureguiberry, Pedro ; Kleyer, Michael ; Lavorel, Sandra ; Maicher, Lutz ; Pérez-Harguindeguy, Natalia ; Poorter, Hendrik ; Schildhauer, Mark P. ; Shipley, Bill ; Violle, Cyrille ; Weiher, Evan ; Wirth, Christian ; Wright, Ian J. ; Klotz, Stefan"	"Journal of Ecology"	NA	NA	"Ecological research produces a tremendous amount of data, but the diversity in scales and topics covered and the ways in which studies are carried out result in large numbers of small, idiosyncratic data sets using heterogeneous terminologies. Such heterogeneity can be attributed, in part, to a lack of standards for acquiring, organizing and describing data. Here, we propose a terminological resource, a Thesaurus Of Plant characteristics (TOP), whose aim is to harmonize and formalize concepts for plant characteristics widely used in ecology. TOP concentrates on two types of plant characteristics: traits and environmental associations. It builds on previous initiatives for several aspects: (i) characteristics are designed following the entity-quality (EQ) model (a characteristic is modelled as the ‘Quality' ¡Q¿ of an ‘Entity' ¡E¿) used in the context of Open Biological Ontologies; (ii) whenever possible, the Entities and Qualities are taken from existing terminology standards, mainly the Plant Ontology (PO) and Phenotypic Quality Ontology (PATO) ontologies; and (iii) whenever a characteristic already has a definition, if appropriate, it is reused and referenced. The development of TOP, which complies with semantic web principles, was carried out through the involvement of experts from both the ecology and the semantics research communities. Regular updates of TOP are planned, based on community feedback and involvement. TOP provides names, definitions, units, synonyms and related terms for about 850 plant characteristics. TOP is available online (www.top-thesaurus.org), and can be browsed using an alphabetical list of characteristics, a hierarchical tree of characteristics, a faceted and a free-text search, and through an Application Programming Interface. Synthesis. Harmonizing definitions of concepts, as proposed by TOP, forms the basis for better integration of data across heterogeneous data sets and terminologies, thereby increasing the potential for data reuse. It also allows enhanced scientific synthesis. TOP therefore has the potential to improve research and communication not only within the field of ecology, but also in related fields with interest in plant functioning and distribution."	"105"	"2"	"298–309"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/1365-2745.12698"	NA	"pubid: rzmi0EmCOGEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"funrar: An R package to characterize functional rarity"	"Grenié, Matthias ; Denelle, Pierre ; Tucker, Caroline M. ; Munoz, François ; Violle, Cyrille"	"Diversity and Distributions"	NA	NA	"Emphasis has been put in recent ecological research on investigating phylogenetic, functional and taxonomic facets of biological diversity. While a flourishing number of indices have been proposed for assessing functional diversity, surprisingly few options are available to characterize functional rarity. Functional rarity can play a key role in community and ecosystem dynamics. We introduce here the funrar R package to quantify functional rarity based on species trait differences and species frequencies at local and regional scales. Because of the increasing availability of big datasets in mac-roecology and biogeography, we optimized funrar to work with large datasets of thousands of species and sites. We illustrate the use of the package to investigate the functional rarity of North and Central American mammals."	"23"	"12"	"1365–1371"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ddi.12629"	NA	"pubid: dMpQl7XwOw4C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Best practices for virtual participation in meetings: Experiences from synthesis centers"	"Hampton, Stephanie E. ; Halpern, Benjamin S. ; Winter, Marten ; Balch, Jennifer K. ; Parker, John N. ; Baron, Jill S. ; Palmer, Margaret A. ; Schildhauer, Mark P. ; Bishop, Pamela ; Meagher, Thomas R. ; Specht, Alison"	"The Bulletin of the Ecological Society of America"	NA	NA	"The earth environment is a complex system, in which collaborative scientific approaches can pro- vide major benefits by bringing together diverse perspectives, methods, and data, to achieve robust, synthetic understanding (Fig. 1). Face- to- face scientific meetings remain extremely valuable because of the opportunity to build deep mutual trust and understanding, and develop new collaborations and sometimes even lifelong friendships (Alberts 2013, Cooke and Hilton 2015). However, it has been argued that ecologists should be particularly sensitive to the environmental footprint of travel (Fox et al. 2009); such concerns, along with the time demands for travel, particularly for multi- national working groups, provide strong motivation for exploring virtual attendance. While not replacing the richness of face- to- face interactions entirely, it is now feasible to virtually participate in meetings through services that allow video, audio, and file sharing, as well as other Web- enabled communication."	"98"	"1"	"57–63"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1002/bes2.1290"	"http://doi.wiley.com/10.1002/bes2.1290"	"pubid: yCjxvIMm6ₒC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Does the impact of biodiversity differ between emerging and endemic pathogens? The need to separate the concepts of hazard and risk"	"Hosseini, Parviez R. ; Mills, James N. ; Prieur-Richard, Anne-Hélène ; Ezenwa, Vanessa O. ; Bailly, Xavier ; Rizzoli, Annapaola ; Suzán, Gerardo ; Vittecoq, Marion ; García-Peña, Gabriel E. ; Daszak, Peter ; Guégan, Jean-François ; Roche, Benjamin"	"Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences"	NA	NA	"Biodiversity is of critical value to human societies, but recent evidence that biodiversity may mitigate infectious-disease risk has sparked controversy among researchers. The majority of work on this topic has focused on direct assessments of the relationship between biodiversity and endemic-pathogen prevalence, without disentangling intervening mechanisms; thus study outcomes often differ, fuelling more debate. Here, we suggest two critical changes to the approach researchers take to understanding relationships between infectious disease, both endemic and emerging, and biodiversity that may help clarify sources of controversy. First, the distinct concepts of hazards versus risks need to be separated to determine how biodiversity and its drivers may act differently on each. This distinction is particularly important since it illustrates that disease emergence drivers in humans could be quite different to the general relationship between biodiversity and transmission of endemic pathogens. Second, the interactive relationship among biodiversity, anthropogenic change and zoonotic disease risk, including both direct and indirect effects, needs to be recognized and accounted for. By carefully disentangling these interactions between humans' activities and pathogen circulation in wildlife, we suggest that conservation efforts could mitigate disease risks and hazards in novel ways that complement more typical disease control efforts.This article is part of the themed issue 'Conservation, biodiversity and infectious disease: scientific evidence and policy implications'."	"372"	"1722"	"20160129"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1098/rstb.2016.0129"	NA	"pubid: 37Fl7vPTsUIC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Extensions of Island Biogeography Theory predict the scaling of functional trait composition with habitat area and isolation"	"Jacquet, Claire ; Mouillot, David ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Gravel, Dominique"	"Ecology Letters"	NA	NA	"The Theory of Island Biogeography (TIB) predicts how area and isolation influence species rich-ness equilibrium on insular habitats. However, the TIB remains silent about functional trait com-position and provides no information on the scaling of functional diversity with area, an observation that is now documented in many systems. To fill this gap, we develop a probabilistic approach to predict the distribution of a trait as a function of habitat area and isolation, extend-ing the TIB beyond the traditional species–area relationship. We compare model predictions to the body-size distribution of piscivorous and herbivorous fishes found on tropical reefs worldwide. We find that small and isolated reefs have a higher proportion of large-sized species than large and connected reefs. We also find that knowledge of species body-size and trophic position improves the predictions of fish occupancy on tropical reefs, supporting both the allometric and trophic theory of island biogeography. The integration of functional ecology to island biogeogra-phy is broadly applicable to any functional traits and provides a general probabilistic approach to study the scaling of trait distribution with habitat area and isolation."	"20"	"2"	"135–146"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ele.12716"	NA	"pubid: JqN3CTdJtl0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Chapter 3 - Invasions toolkit: Current methods for tracking the spread and impact of invasive species"	"Kamenova, S. ; Bartley, T. J. ; Bohan, D. A. ; Boutain, J. R. ; Colautti, R. I. ; Domaizon, I. ; Fontaine, C. ; Lemainque, A. ; Le Viol, I. ; Mollot, G. ; Perga, M.-E. ; Ravigné, V. ; Massol, François"	NA	"Networks of invasion: A synthesis of concepts"	"Bohan, David A ; Dumbrell, Alex J ; Massol, François"	"Biological invasions exert multiple pervasive effects on ecosystems, potentially disrupting species interactions and global ecological processes. Our ability to successfully predict and manage the ecosystem-level impacts of biological invasions is strongly dependent on our capacity to empirically characterize complex biological interactions and their spatiotemporal dynamics. In this chapter, we argue that the comprehensive integration of multiple complementary tools within the explicit context of ecological networks is essential for providing mechanistic insight into invasion processes and their impact across organizational levels. We provide an overview of traditional (stable isotopes, populations genetics) and emerging (metabarcoding, citizen science) techniques and methods, and their practical implementation in the context of biological invasions. We also present several currently available models and machine-learning approaches that could be used for predicting novel or undocumented interactions, thus allowing a more robust and cost-effective forecast of network and ecosystem stability. Finally, we discuss the importance of methodological advancements on the emergence of scientific and societal challenges for investigating local and global species histories with several skill sets."	"56"	NA	"85–182"	"Advances in Ecological Research (Vol. 56)"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	"http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0065250416300587"	"pubid: lRPiJ3GhvscC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Chapter 5.2 - Ecosystem services, values, and societal perceptions of intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams"	"Koundouri, Phoebe ; Boulton, Andrew J. ; Datry, Thibault ; Souliotis, Ioannis"	NA	"Intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams"	"Datry, Thibault ; Bonada, Núria ; Boulton, Andrew J."	"The geomorphology and sediment regimes of intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams (IRES) are extremely diverse, owing in large part to the substantial spatiotemporal variability of the associated hydrological regimes. We describe the geomorphological character and sediment transport processes along IRES within the context of four geomorphological zones-upland, piedmont, lowland, and floodout-to illustrate the underpinning longitudinal trends of sediment production, transfer, and deposition that exist at the landscape scale. Many geomorphological features of IRES tend to be spatially discontinuous as a result of extended no or low-flow conditions that are punctuated by high-magnitude flood events. Diversity of geomorphology and sediment regimes both within and between the four geomorphological zones therefore promotes ecological processes and patterns in IRES that can be very distinct from perennial river systems."	NA	NA	"455–476"	"Ecology and Management"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	NA	"pubid: r56sNq9gaawC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Drying as a primary hydrological determinant of biodiversity in river systems: a broad-scale analysis"	"Leigh, Catherine ; Datry, Thibault"	"Ecography"	NA	NA	"Determining and understanding relationships between biodiversity and hydrology is a critical goal in ecology, particularly given biodiversity in the freshwater realm is in crisis. Despite the prevalence of rivers experiencing natural drying disturbances (which we collectively refer to as intermittent rivers), and projections of increased frequency and duration of drying events, the importance of drying relative to other flow-related determinants of river biodiversity remains understudied. We assessed the influence of drying on alpha- and beta-diversity using discharge and macroinvertebrate data collated from Australia and southwest Europe over broad spatial and temporal scales, providing information on current and past drying events, and combining a wide variety of flow metrics. We found clear evidence that drying acts as a strong environmental filter and is a primary hydrological determinant of alpha-diversity; even when considering both intermittent and perennial rivers, drying-event conditions were its most important predictors. Macroinvertebrate richness declined with increasing durations of drying over the long-term (Australia) and recent (Australia and southwest Europe) history of river discharge, and with decreasing predictability of event timing (Australia). Our analysis also revealed that: responses can be taxon specific due to variation in traits of resistance and resilience to drying; some taxa may respond just as or more strongly to variation in other discharge components (e.g. high- or low-flow events) than to drying; and together these phenomena may result in differing community-level responses within and across regions. Patterns of beta-diversity across the wide biogeographical range of our study suggested that convergent and divergent niche-selection processes may act in combination on aquatic communities of rivers experiencing drying disturbances. However, strong ability to disperse by flight (not by water) weakened beta-diversity patterning among rivers. Our findings can be used to improve understanding of biodiversity organisation in disturbed systems, notably in those with dendritic features, including intermittent rivers."	"40"	"4"	"487–499"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ecog.02230"	NA	"pubid: 09LM3QYkMKUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"IRBAS: An online database to collate, analyze, and synthesize data on the biodiversity and ecology of intermittent rivers worldwide"	"Leigh, Catherine ; Laporte, Baptiste ; Bonada, Núria ; Fritz, Ken ; Pella, Hervé ; Sauquet, Eric ; Tockner, Klement ; Datry, Thibault"	"Ecology and Evolution"	NA	NA	"Key questions dominating contemporary ecological research and management concern interactions between biodiversity, ecosystem processes, and ecosystem services provision in the face of global change. This is particularly salient for freshwater biodiversity and in the context of river drying and flow-regime change. Rivers that stop flowing and dry, herein intermittent rivers, are globally prevalent and dynamic ecosystems on which the body of research is expanding rapidly, consistent with the era of big data. However, the data encapsulated by this work remain largely fragmented, limiting our ability to answer the key questions beyond a case-by-case basis. To this end, the Intermittent River Biodiversity Analysis and Synthesis (IRBAS; http://irbas.cesab.org) project has collated, analyzed, and synthesized data from across the world on the biodiversity and environmental characteristics of intermittent rivers. The IRBAS database integrates and provides free access to these data, contributing to the growing, and global, knowledge base on these ubiquitous and important river systems, for both theoretical and applied advancement. The IRBAS database currently houses over 2000 data samples collected from six countries across three continents, primarily describing aquatic invertebrate taxa inhabiting intermittent rivers during flowing hydrological phases. As such, there is room to expand the biogeographic and taxonomic coverage, for example, through addition of data collected during nonflowing and dry hydrological phases. We encourage contributions and provide guidance on how to contribute and access data. Ultimately, the IRBAS database serves as a portal, storage, standardization, and discovery tool, enabling collation, synthesis, and analysis of data to elucidate patterns in river biodiversity and guide management. Contribution creates high visibility for datasets, facilitating collaboration. The IRBAS database will grow in content as the study of intermittent rivers continues and data retrieval will allow for networking, meta-analyses, and testing of generalizations across multiple systems, regions, and taxa."	"7"	"3"	"815–823"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1002/ece3.2679"	NA	"pubid: tSVUDDkujAIC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Relationships among site characteristics, taxonomical structure and functional trait distribution of arthropods in forest, urban and agricultural soils of Southern Italy"	"Maisto, Giulia ; Milano, Vittoria ; Santorufo, Lucia"	"Ecological Research"	NA	NA	"Urbanization and agriculture cause alterations in soil biodiversity. As arthropods quickly respond to soil changes, they have been recognized as good indicators of soil quality. This study aimed to evaluate if (1) soil physico-chemical properties act as environmental filters of the functional trait distribution of soil arthropod community; (2) the abundance of certain functional traits is linked to different land uses; (3) the taxonomical and functional approaches provide complementary information about the evaluation of biological soil quality. The study was performed at forest, agricultural and urban sites in downtown and surroundings of Naples. The soils were characterized for texture, pH, organic matter content, water content, total Cd, Cr, Cu, Ni, Pb and Zn concentrations. The forest soils showed the highest organic matter and water contents, and the lowest metal concentrations; the agricultural soils showed the lowest organic matter and water contents and high Cd and Cu concentrations, whereas the urban soils showed high Pb and Zn concentrations. The forest soils showed the highest arthropod density, taxa richness and diversity. The distribution of the functional traits in the arthropod communities of the different land uses highlighted similarity only for the preference to occupy soil and for the percentage contribution of detritivores. The abundance of arthropods living above litter and omnivores were positively correlated to Pb and Zn concentrations, whereas predators were positively correlated to Cu concentrations. The findings suggest that the arthropod identification at order level could be enough to detect differences in functional traits among forest, urban, and agricultural soils."	"32"	"4"	"511–521"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1007/s11284-017-1464-1"	NA	"pubid: I-2NeQpV75MC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Preface"	"Massol, François ; David, Patrice ; Bohan, D. A."	NA	"Networks of invasion: A synthesis of concepts"	"Bohan, David A ; Dumbrell, Alex J ; Massol, François"	NA	"56"	NA	"xiii – xvi"	"Advances in Ecological Research (Vol. 56)"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	"http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0065250417300090"	"pubid: 9tXw7Op4-u0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Chapter 4 - Island biogeography of food webs"	"Massol, François ; Dubart, Maxime ; Calcagno, Vincent ; Cazelles, Kévin ; Jacquet, Claire ; Kéfi, Sonia ; Gravel, Dominique"	NA	"Networks of invasion: A synthesis of concepts"	"Bohan, David A ; Dumbrell, Alex J ; Massol, François"	"To understand why and how species invade ecosystems, ecologists have made heavy use of observations of species colonization on islands. The theory of island biogeography, developed in the 1960s by R.H. MacArthur and E.O. Wilson, has had a tremendous impact on how ecologists understand the link between species diversity and characteristics of the habitat such as isolation and size. Recent developments have described how the inclusion of information on trophic interactions can further inform our understanding of island biogeography dynamics. Here, we extend the trophic theory of island biogeography to assess whether certain food web properties on the mainland affect colonization/extinction dynamics of species on islands. Our results highlight that both food web connectance and size on the mainland increase species diversity on islands. We also highlight that more heavily tailed degree distributions in the mainland food web correlate with less frequent but potentially more important extinction cascades on islands. The average shortest path to a basal species on islands follows a hump-shaped curve as a function of realized species richness, with food chains slightly longer than on the mainland at intermediate species richness. More modular mainland webs are also less persistent on islands. We discuss our results in the context of global changes and from the viewpoint of community assembly rules, aiming at pinpointing further theoretical developments needed to make the trophic theory of island biogeography even more useful for fundamental and applied ecology."	"56"	NA	"183–262"	"Advances in Ecological Research (Vol. 56)"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	"http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0065250416300538"	"pubid: jq04SsiGh3QC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Chapter 4.7 - Food webs and trophic interactions in intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams"	"McIntosh, Angus R. ; Leigh, Catherine ; Boersma, Kate S. ; McHugh, Peter A. ; Febria, Catherine ; García-Berthou, Emili"	NA	"Intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams"	"Datry, Thibault ; Bonada, Núria ; Boulton, Andrew J."	NA	NA	NA	"323–347"	"Ecology and Management"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	NA	"pubid: sYWwZaPVD1oC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Ecology and feeding habits drive infection of water bugs with mycobacterium ulcerans"	"Meyin A. Ebong, Solange ; García-Peña, Gabriel E. ; Pluot-Sigwalt, Dominique ; Marsollier, Laurent ; Le Gall, Philippe ; Eyangoh, Sara ; Guégan, Jean-François"	"EcoHealth"	NA	NA	"Mycobacterium ulcerans (MU), the causative agent of Buruli ulcer, is present in a wide spectrum of environments, including terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems in tropical regions. The most promising studies on the epidemiological risk of this disease suggest that some ecological settings may favor infection of animals with MU including human. A species' needs and impacts on resources and the environment, i.e., its ecological niche, may influence its susceptibility to be infected by this microbial form. For example, some Naucoridae may dive in fresh waters to prey upon infected animals and thus may get infected with MU. However, these studies have rarely considered that inference on the ecological settings favoring infection and transmission may be confounded because host carrier sister species have similar ecological niches, and potentially the same host–microbe interactions. Hence, a relationship between the ecological niche of Naucoridae and its infection with MU may be due to a symbiotic relationship between the host and the pathogen, rather than its ecological niche. To account for this confounding effect, we investigated the relationships between surrogates of the ecological niche of water bug species and their susceptibility to MU, by performing phylogenetic comparative analyses on a large dataset of 11 families of water bugs collected in 10 different sites across Cameroon, central Africa. Our results indicate that MU circulates and infects a couple of host taxa, i.e., Belostomatidae, Naucoridae, living both in the aquatic vegetation and as predators inside the trophic network and sister species of water bugs have indeed similar host–microbe interactions with MU."	"14"	"2"	"329–341"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1007/s10393-017-1228-y"	NA	"pubid: PZE8UkGerEcC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"thesis"	"2017"	"Effets de la mosaïque paysagère proche, de l'histoire et des pratiques de gestion locales sur les communautés taxonomiques et fonctionnelles des Collemboles du sol des parcs urbains méditerranéens : les cas de Naples (Italie) et Montpellier (France)"	"Milano, Vittoria"	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	"https://tel.archives-ouvertes.fr/tel-01863434"	"pubid: g30IDTdgJMgC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"European butterfly populations vary in sensitivity to weather across their geographical ranges"	"Mills, Simon C. ; Oliver, Tom H. ; Bradbury, Richard B. ; Gregory, Richard D. ; Brereton, Tom M. ; Kühn, Elisabeth ; Kuussaari, Mikko ; Musche, Martin ; Roy, David B. ; Schmucki, Reto ; Stefanescu, Constantí ; van Swaay, Chris A. M. ; Evans, Karl L."	"Global Ecology and Biogeography"	NA	NA	"Aim: The aim was to assess the sensitivity of butterfly population dynamics to variation in weather conditions across their geographical ranges, relative to sensitivity to density dependence, and determine whether sensitivity is greater towards latitudinal range margins. Location: Europe. Time period: 1980–2014. Major taxa studied: Butterflies. Methods: We use long-term (35 years) butterfly monitoring data from ¿ 900 sites, ranging from Finland to Spain, grouping sites into 2° latitudinal bands. For 12 univoltine butterfly species with sufficient data from at least four bands, we construct population growth rate models that include density dependence, temperature and precipitation during distinct life-cycle periods, defined to accommodate regional variation in phenology. We use partial R2 values as indicators of butterfly population dynamics' sensitivity to weather and density dependence, and assess how these vary with latitudinal position within a species' distribution. Results: Population growth rates appear uniformly sensitive to density dependence across species' geographical distributions, and sensitivity to density dependence is typically greater than sensitivity to weather. Sensitivity to weather is greatest towards range edges, with symmetry in northern and southern parts of the range. This pattern is not driven by variation in the magnitude of weather variability across the range, topographic heterogeneity, latitudinal range extent or phylogeny. Significant weather variables in population growth rate models appear evenly distributed across the life cycle and across temperature and precipitation, with substantial intraspecific variation across the geographical ranges in the associations between population dynamics and specific weather variables. Main conclusions: Range-edge populations appear more sensitive to changes in weather than those nearer the centre of species' distributions, but density dependence does not exhibit this pattern. Precipitation is as important as temperature in driving butterfly population dynamics. Intraspecific variation in the form and strength of sensitivity to weather suggests that there may be important geographical variation in populations' responses to climate change."	"26"	"12"	"1374–1385"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/geb.12659"	"https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/geb.12659"	"pubid: anDooRL1HQEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Chapter 2 - The effects of invasive species on the decline in species richness: A global meta-analysis"	"Mollot, G. ; Pantel, J. H. ; Romanuk, T. N."	NA	"Networks of invasion: A synthesis of concepts"	"Bohan, David A ; Dumbrell, Alex J ; Massol, François"	"Biological invasions are one of the most important ecological disturbances that threaten native biodiversity. An expected increase in the rate of species extinction will have major effects on the structure and function of ecosystems worldwide. The goal of our study is to determine which ecological properties mediate the impact of invasive species on biodiversity loss on a global scale using a meta-analysis. We considered the role of properties such as the trophic and taxonomic position of invaders, taxonomic groups of invaded systems, the type of habitats invaded and whether the invasive species is included in a list of the most harmful invasive species for biodiversity loss. We compiled 185 studies that included 253 numerical values of changes of species richness due to species invasion. We investigated the role of trophic and taxonomic parameters of invaders, as well as the role of abiotic parameters of habitat on changes in species richness due to biological invasions. Our results show that plant invaders are highly represented (85% of all invaders studied), especially those belonging to the Poaceae family. For animals, predation seems to be the feeding behaviour associated with the greatest decrease in species richness and this relationship is independent of habitat type, with a 21% decline observed in aquatic habitats and a 27% decline in terrestrial habitats. In invaded communities, birds suffer the greatest decline in species richness (41% decline). Finally, we found that species richness declines in Europe are spatially autocorrelated, suggesting that the consequences of invasive species cannot be understood through local-scale analysis alone."	"56"	NA	"61–83"	"Advances in Ecological Research (Vol. 56)"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	"http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0065250416300514"	"pubid: kvJssbFybhEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"report"	"2017"	"Database of weeds in cultivation fields of France and UK, with ecological and biogeographical information (Version 1.0.0) [Data set]"	"Munoz, François ; Fried, Guillaume ; Armengot, Laura ; Bourgeois, Bérenger ; Bretagnolle, Vincent ; Chadoeuf, Joel ; Mahaut, Lucie ; Plumejeaud, Christine ; Storkey, Jonathan ; Violle, Cyrille ; Gaba, Sabrina"	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	"Zenodo"	NA	NA	"pubid: IExZWSxeYXUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Responses of coral reef fishes to past climate changes are related to life-history traits"	"Ottimofiore, Eduardo ; Albouy, Camille ; Leprieur, Fabien ; Descombes, Patrice ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Mouillot, David ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Pellissier, Loïc"	"Ecology and Evolution"	NA	NA	"Coral reefs and their associated fauna are largely impacted by ongoing climate change. Unravelling species responses to past climatic variations might provide clues on the consequence of ongoing changes. Here, we tested the relationship between changes in sea surface temperature and sea levels during the Quaternary and present-day distributions of coral reef fish species. We investigated whether species-specific responses are associated with life-history traits. We collected a database of coral reef fish distribution together with life-history traits for the Indo-Pacific Ocean. We ran species distribution models (SDMs) on 3,725 tropical reef fish species using contemporary environmental factors together with a variable describing isolation from stable coral reef areas during the Quaternary. We quantified the variance explained independently by isolation from stable areas in the SDMs and related it to a set of species traits including body size and mobility. The variance purely explained by isolation from stable coral reef areas on the distribution of extant coral reef fish species largely varied across species. We observed a triangular relationship between the contribution of isolation from stable areas in the SDMs and body size. Species, whose distribution is more associated with historical changes, occurred predominantly in the Indo-Australian archipelago, where the mean size of fish assemblages is the lowest. Our results suggest that the legacy of habitat changes of the Quaternary is still detectable in the extant distribution of many fish species, especially those with small body size and the most sedentary. Because they were the least able to colonize distant habitats in the past, fish species with smaller body size might have the most pronounced lags in tracking ongoing climate change."	"7"	"6"	"1996–2005"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1002/ece3.2800"	NA	"pubid: eLRq4zTgah0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Chapter 6 - 14 Questions for invasion in ecological networks"	"Pantel, J. H. ; Bohan, D. A. ; Calcagno, Vincent ; David, Patrice ; Duyck, P.-F. ; Kamenova, S. ; Loeuille, N. ; Mollot, G. ; Romanuk, T. N. ; Thébault, Elodie ; Tixier, P. ; Massol, François"	NA	"Networks of invasion: A synthesis of concepts"	"Bohan, David A ; Dumbrell, Alex J ; Massol, François"	"Why do some species successfully invade new environments? Which of these invasive species will alter or even reshape their new environment? The answers to these questions are simultaneously critical and complex. They are critical because invasive species can spectacularly alter their new environment, leading to native species extinctions or loss of important ecosystem functions that fundamentally reduce environmental and societal services. They are complex because invasion success in a novel environment is influenced by various attributes embedded in natural landscapes—biogeographical landscape properties, abiotic environmental characteristics, and the relationship between the invasive species and the resident species present in the new environment. We explore whether a condensed record of the relationships among species, in the form of a network, contains the information needed to understand and predict invasive species success and subsequent impacts. Applying network theory to study invasive species is a relatively novel approach. For this reason, much research will be needed to incorporate existing ecological properties into a network framework and to identify which network features hold the information needed to understand and predict whether or not an invasive species is likely to establish or come to dominate a novel environment. This paper asks and begins to answer the 14 most important questions that biologists must address to integrate network analysis into the study of invasive species. Answering these questions can help ecologists produce a practical monitoring scheme to identify invasive species before they substantially alter native environments or to provide solutions to mitigate their harmful impacts."	"56"	NA	"293–340"	"Advances in Ecological Research (Vol. 56)"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	"http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0065250416300575"	"pubid: 3x-KLxxGyuUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Chapter 5 - Robustness trade-offs in model food webs: Invasion probability decreases while invasion consequences increase with connectance"	"Romanuk, T. N. ; Zhou, Y. ; Valdovinos, F. S. ; Martinez, N. D."	NA	"Networks of invasion: A synthesis of concepts"	"Bohan, David A ; Dumbrell, Alex J ; Massol, François"	"The invasion of ecosystems by nonnative species is widely considered the greatest threat to biodiversity after habitat loss. Given limited theoretical and empirical understanding of ecological robustness to such perturbations, we simulated invasions of complex ecological networks by integrating the ‘niche model' of food web structure and a nonlinear bioenergetic model of population dynamics. Overall, 7958 successful invasions by 100 different invaders in 150 food webs with 15–29 original species (mean 20) and 5–38% connectance (mean 16%) showed that most (61%) communities were robust to invasion in that they experienced no species loss. The distribution of robustness in terms of the fraction of native species that persisted (mean 94%) was skewed with a long tail reaching to values as low as 20%. Loss of a single species occurred less frequently (14% of cases) than ‘extinction cascades' involving the loss of two or more species (25% of cases). These cascades were often caused by invaders with many prey species and few predator species. While low-connectance webs and webs invaded by omnivores were most likely to lose at least one additional species, high-connectance webs experiencing extinction cascades lost the most species, especially when invaded by secondary consumers. These and earlier simulation results suggest how the structure of invaded communities and the properties of invaders involve trade-offs among robustness and resistance to invasion. For example, high-connectance communities are highly resistant and robust to invasion overall but lose the most species in the relatively few cases when extinctions occur. Low-connectance webs are the least resistant and more often lack robustness but lose the fewest species in the relatively many cases when extinctions occur. Broadly speaking, these findings suggest that high connectance makes food webs rigidly resistant to invasion but more brittle once such rigidity is breached. Low-connectance webs are less rigid while more flexibly suffering fewer extinctions when extinctions occur."	"56"	NA	"263–291"	"Advances in Ecological Research (Vol. 56)"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	"http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0065250416300599"	"pubid: 3f9JqYsqVQC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Biodiversity in perennial and intermittent rivers: A meta-analysis"	"Soria, Maria ; Leigh, Catherine ; Datry, Thibault ; Bini, Luis Mauricio ; Bonada, Núria"	"Oikos"	NA	NA	"Comprehensive knowledge of the effects of disturbances on biodiversity is crucial for conservation and management, not least because ecosystems with low biodiversity may be the most vulnerable. In rivers, the role of disturbance in shaping aquatic biodiversity has mainly focused on floods. Perennial rivers (PRs) often flood, whereas intermittent rivers (IRs) flood, stop flowing and dry. Despite the recent and significant increase in research on IRs, controversy remains about whether they are more or less biodiverse than PRs. Our aim was to determine (Q1) if PRs and IRs differ in biodiversity and (Q2) if the direction and magnitude of the differences (effect sizes) are related to environmental (climate, season, habitat, longitudinal zonation and anthropogenic disturbance) and/or biological factors (taxonomic group). We conducted a meta-analysis on 44 published studies of PR and IR biodiversity that had replicated data. We applied random effects models to the data to obtain weighted mean effect sizes for differences between PRs and IRs, and their confidence intervals, by first considering all studies and then by splitting studies into groups on the basis of the above factors. We found that biodiversity was significantly higher in PRs than in IRs (Q1). We also detected significant differences (PRs  IRs) in studies of macroinvertebrates, in those conducted within arid and temperate climates, dry and wet sampling seasons, headwaters, and regions subject to different levels of anthropogenic disturbance (Q2). Our meta-analysis suggests that the expected increase in the prevalence of IRs in certain regions of the world due to global change could result in a decrease in freshwater biodiversity. To better manage and preserve aquatic biodiversity under future global change scenarios and to avoid potential ecosystem consequences of biodiversity loss, conservation efforts should be targeted towards those environmental conditions or taxonomic groups with significant differences (PRs  IRs)."	"126"	"8"	"1078–1089"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/oik.04118"	NA	"pubid: ON9TkA72AHEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Exploring the floristic diversity of tropical Africa"	"Sosef, Marc S. M. ; Dauby, Gilles ; Blach-Overgaard, Anne ; van der Burgt, Xander ; Catarino, Luís ; Damen, Theo ; Deblauwe, Vincent ; Dessein, Steven ; Dransfield, John ; Droissart, Vincent ; Duarte, Maria Cristina ; Engledow, Henry ; Fadeur, Geoffrey ; Figueira, Rui ; Gereau, Roy E. ; Hardy, Oliver J. ; Harris, David J. ; de Heij, Janneke ; Janssens, Steven B. ; Klomberg, Yannick ; Ley, Alexandra C. ; MacKinder, Barbara A. ; Meerts, Pierre ; van de Poel, Jeike L. ; Sonké, Bonaventure ; Stévart, Tariq ; Stoffelen, Piet ; Svenning, Jens-Christian ; Sepulchre, Pierre ; Zaiss, Rainer ; Wieringa, Jan J. ; Couvreur, Thomas L. P."	"BMC Biology"	NA	NA	"Understanding the patterns of biodiversity distribution and what influences them is a fundamental pre-requisite for effective conservation and sustainable utilisation of biodiversity. Such knowledge is increasingly urgent as biodiversity responds to the ongoing effects of global climate change. Nowhere is this more acute than in species-rich tropical Africa, where so little is known about plant diversity and its distribution. In this paper, we use RAINBIO – one of the largest mega-databases of tropical African vascular plant species distributions ever compiled – to address questions about plant and growth form diversity across tropical Africa. The filtered RAINBIO dataset contains 609,776 georeferenced records representing 22,577 species. Growth form data are recorded for 97% of all species. Records are well distributed, but heterogeneous across the continent. Overall, tropical Africa remains poorly sampled. When using sampling units (SU) of 0.5°, just 21 reach appropriate collection density and sampling completeness, and the average number of records per species per SU is only 1.84. Species richness (observed and estimated) and endemism figures per country are provided. Benin, Cameroon, Gabon, Ivory Coast and Liberia appear as the botanically best-explored countries, but none are optimally explored. Forests in the region contain 15,387 vascular plant species, of which 3013 are trees, representing 5–7% of the estimated world's tropical tree flora. The central African forests have the highest endemism rate across Africa, with approximately 30% of species being endemic. The botanical exploration of tropical Africa is far from complete, underlining the need for intensified inventories and digitization. We propose priority target areas for future sampling efforts, mainly focused on Tanzania, Atlantic Central Africa and West Africa. The observed number of tree species for African forests is smaller than those estimated from global tree data, suggesting that a significant number of species are yet to be discovered. Our data provide a solid basis for a more sustainable management and improved conservation of tropical Africa's unique flora, and is important for achieving Objective 1 of the Global Strategy for Plant Conservation 2011–2020."	"15"	"1"	"15"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1186/s12915-017-0356-8"	NA	"pubid: puFLaqDw8dcC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Synthesis centres: Their relevance to and importance in the anthropocene"	"Specht, Alison"	NA	"Terrestrial ecosystem research infrastructures: challenges and opportunities"	"Chabbi, A. ; Loescher, H."	"In a world where there is increasing demand for solutions to urgent and complex ecological questions requiring multidisciplinary participation and transdisciplinary insight, but where the abundance of information has become overwhelming, the analysis and synthesis centre has emerged recently as an effective and arguably indispensible tool. Using staff with multidimensional skills and considerable experience, the synthesis centre provides a supportive environment for groups of people with diverse disciplinary, organisational, cultural and geographical origins to work together using existing data to address big science questions. It fills a niche in timepressed and discipline-centred lives, enabling wisdom to be drawn from a heterogeneous mass of data. The successful performance of synthesis centres depends on a unique marriage of knowledge of learning, collaboration and teamwork behaviours, data management expertise (including legal aspects) and scientific understanding, coupled with the knowledge of national and international scientific and organisational landscapes. The synthesis centre approach, described in this chapter, has proved to be remarkably successful, with high publication output and citation rates, and the delivery of many data packages for future use. Participation in a synthesis centre provides users with a uniquely stimulating experience and enables them to forge new and strong professional relationships. Without such centres, transdisciplinary insights will continue to be limited to existing partnerships and short-term goals and will lack the probity that original work on data and information can provide. Synthesis centres: their relevance to and importance in the anthropocene. | Request PDF. Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/316276212<sub>S</sub>ynthesis<sub>c</sub>entresₜheir<sub>r</sub>elevanceₜoₐnd<sub>i</sub>mportance<sub>i</sub>nₜheₐnthropocene [accessed Jul 22 2018]."	NA	NA	"469–488"	"CRC Press"	"Boca Raton"	NA	NA	NA	"pubid: NnTm98qLMbgC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Chapter 4.4 - The biota of intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams: Terrestrial and semiaquatic invertebrates"	"Steward, Alisha L. ; Langhans, Simone D. ; Corti, Roland ; Datry, Thibault"	NA	"Intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams"	"Datry, Thibault ; Bonada, Núria ; Boulton, Andrew J."	"Intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams (IRES) can support a diverse and often abundant terrestrial and semiaquatic invertebrate (TSAI) fauna. This fauna can inhabit the shoreline, the surface of exposed gravel bars, unsaturated gravels, dry riverbeds, riparian zones, and floodplains. TSAI communities are typically dominated by ground-dwelling beetles, ants, and spiders, but many other taxonomic groups are represented. Much less is known about the species composition and ecological roles of TSAIs of IRES than their aquatic counterparts. In this chapter, we discuss the habitat requirements of TSAI fauna, as well as their taxonomic and functional diversity. We describe approaches to sampling them and the collection equipment required, the adaptations of IRES invertebrates to flow intermittence, and their roles in processing organic matter and nutrients. Finally, we identify threats to TSAI communities, outline existing knowledge gaps, and suggest how to manage IRES ecosystems to conserve or restore TSAI biodiversity. The explicit inclusion of IRES in management and legislation will help safeguard the diversity of TSAIs. © 2017 Copyright"	NA	NA	"245–271"	"Ecology and Management"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-803835-2.00008-5"	"pubid: h9G0ZmjYpDoC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2017"	"Chapter 4.3 - The biota of intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams: aquatic invertebrates"	"Stubbington, R. ; Bogan, Michael T. ; Bonada, Núria ; Boulton, Andrew J. ; Datry, Thibault ; Leigh, Catherine ; Vander Vorste, Ross"	NA	"Intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams"	"Datry, Thibault ; Bonada, Núria ; Boulton, Andrew J."	NA	NA	NA	"217–243"	"Ecology and Management"	"Academic Press"	NA	NA	NA	"pubid: CMPXdcK5v8EC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"A common toolbox to understand, monitor or manage rarity? A response to Carmona et al."	"Violle, Cyrille ; Thuiller, Wilfried ; Mouquet, Nicolas ; Munoz, François ; Kraft, Nathan J. B. ; Cadotte, Marc W. ; Livingstone, Stuart W. ; Grenié, Matthias ; Mouillot, David"	"Trends in Ecology & Evolution"	NA	NA	NA	"32"	"12"	"891–893"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.tree.2017.10.001"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tree.2017.10.001"	"pubid: 6pF0wJmtdfAC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2017"	"Functional rarity: The ecology of outliers"	"Violle, Cyrille ; Thuiller, Wilfried ; Mouquet, Nicolas ; Munoz, François ; Kraft, Nathan J. B. ; Cadotte, Marc W. ; Livingstone, Stuart W. ; Mouillot, David"	"Trends in Ecology & Evolution"	NA	NA	"Rarity has been a central topic for conservation and evolutionary biologists aiming to determine the species characteristics that cause extinction risk. More recently, beyond the rarity of species, the rarity of functions or functional traits, called functional rarity, has gained momentum in helping to understand the impact of biodiversity decline on ecosystem functioning. However, a conceptual framework for defining and quantifying functional rarity is still lacking. We introduce 12 different forms of functional rarity along gradients of species scarcity and trait distinctiveness. We then highlight the potential key role of functional rarity in the long-term and large-scale maintenance of ecosystem processes, as well as the necessary linkage between functional and evolutionary rarity."	"32"	"5"	"356–367"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.tree.2017.02.002"	"http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169534717300381"	"pubid: oXKBmVzQOggC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"book"	"2018"	"Organic sovereignties: Struggles over farming in an age of free trade"	"Aistara, Guntra A."	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	"University of Washington Press"	"Seattle, USA"	NA	NA	"https://uwapress.uw.edu/book/9780295743110/organic-sovereignties/"	"pubid: rDsFeusoTZkC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Forest humus forms as a playground for studying aboveground-belowground relationships: Part 1, Theoretical backgrounds"	"Aubert, Michaël ; Bureau, Fabrice"	"Applied Soil Ecology"	NA	NA	"Within the context of soil biodiversity erosion and of soil recognition as a non-renewable resource i.e., not recoverable within a human lifespan, we mix theoretical backgrounds from community ecology and functional ecology to address links between aboveground diversity and belowground diversity and their functional consequences for soil. We develop a working hypothesis, for future research, stating that the best performance of the soil-plant interface (i.e., high organic matter recycling, low losses of biogenic elements, and plant productivity) is achieved when all communities (plant and soil biota) have reached a similar organizational pattern based on species assemblages, limiting functional traits similarity, and maximizing complementary traits. We conclude that the humus system is the best candidate for testing this hypothesis."	"123"	"September 2017"	"391–397"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.apsoil.2017.09.004"	"https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsoil.2017.09.004"	"pubid: WM2K3OHRCGMC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Intraspecific body size variability in soil organisms at a European scale: Implications for functional biogeography"	"Bonfanti, Jonathan ; Hedde, Mickaël ; Joimel, Sophie ; Krogh, Paul Henning ; Violle, Cyrille ; Nahmani, Johanne ; Cortet, Jérôme"	"Functional Ecology"	NA	NA	"1. Investigating the functional facet of biodiversity provides ecologists with a deeper understanding of community assembly and ecosystem processes, from local to biogeographical scales. A central assumption in functional ecology is that inter- specific trait variability is higher than intraspecific variability. The “stable species hierarchy” hypothesis states that for similar species found in different environ- mental conditions, their species trait ranking is conserved. In this study, we ap- plied this trait hierarchy concept prevalent in plant ecology to the growing field of soil functional ecology, for which newly developed trait databases are being increasingly used. However, to date there have been few attempts to test for patterns of intraspecific trait variability (ITV) in these databases. 2. We thus aimed to characterize how such patterns might influence (a) a species hierarchy based on trait values and (b) the conclusions of a trait-based analysis at a community level. To examine this, we used Collembola body size data (extracted from the BETSI database) as model trait. The source consisted of four regional trait datasets (Poland, Scandinavia, Spain and UK) and one dataset for which species traits are defined at a continental (European) scale. 3. We found that, firstly, species were consistently ranked in all the trait datasets, although slight differences were observed between continental and northern European (i.e. Scandinavia and UK) trait datasets. In the two northern datasets, body size was higher (ca. 10%), indicating an intraspecific body size gradient from temperate to colder northern regions that we assumed could be explained by latitudinal patterns. 4. Secondly, using selected published species abundance matrices (from experimen- tal studies), we calculated the community-weighted mean body size using various trait datasets. The findings showed that the slight discrepancies observed between trait datasets can lead to different conclusions. 5. This work confirms that properly defining the extent of ITV in databases is of pri- mary importance to ensure robust conclusions. This is particularly important for databases hosting large-scale data that might be influenced by biogeographical patterns as latitudinal gradients. We recommend using a local regional trait data- set when available or, if not, a continental trait dataset. As trait databases are now commonly used tools for performing trait-based analyses, it is crucial to carefully select the data used to make inferences."	"32"	"11"	"2562–2570"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/1365-2435.13194"	NA	"pubid: jRIwE-1ttnoC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Trait matching and phylogeny as predictors of predator–prey interactions involving ground beetles"	"Brousseau, Pierre Marc ; Gravel, Dominique ; Handa, I. Tanya"	"Functional Ecology"	NA	NA	"1. With global change modifying species assemblages, our success in predicting ecosystem-level consequences of these new communities will depend, in part, on our ability to understand biotic interactions. Current food web theory considers interactions between numerous species simultaneously, but descriptive models are unable to predict interactions between newly co-occurring species. Incorporating proxies such as functional traits and phylogeny into models could help infer preda-tor/prey interactions. 2. Here, we used trait matching between predator feeding traits and prey vulnerability traits, along with phylogeny (used as a proxy for chemical defence and other traits difficult to document), to infer predatory interactions using ground beetles as model organisms. 3. A feeding experiment was conducted involving 20 ground beetle and 115 prey species to determine which pair of species did or did not interact. Eight predator and four prey functional traits were measured directly on specimens. Then, using a modelling approach based on the matching-centrality formalism, we evaluated 511 predictive ecological models that tested different combinations of all predator and prey functional traits, and phylogenetic information. 4. The most parsimonious model accurately predicted 81% of the observed realized and unrealized interactions, using phylogenetic information and the trait-matches predator biting force/prey cuticular toughness and predator/prey body size ratio. The best trait-based models predicted correctly ¿80% which species interact (real-ized interactions), but predict ¡58% of which species did not interact (unrealized interactions). Adding a phylogenetic term representing the evolutionary distance within each trophic level increased the ability to predict which species did not interact to ¿75%. 5. The matching of predator biting force and prey cuticular toughness demonstrated a better predictive power than the commonly used predator/prey body size ratio. Our novel model combining both functional traits and phylogeny extends beyond existing descriptive approaches and could represent a valuable tool to predict con-sumer/resource interactions of newly introduced species and to resolve cryptic food webs. K E Y W O R D S food web, functional traits, matching-centrality formalism, networks, trophic interactions"	"32"	"1"	"192–202"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/1365-2435.12943"	NA	"pubid: -38epGy1wY0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Functional traits modulate the response of alien plants along abiotic and biotic gradients"	"Carboni, Marta ; Calderon-Sanou, Irene ; Pollock, Laura J. ; Violle, Cyrille ; Consortium, DivGrass ; Thuiller, Wilfried"	"Global Ecology and Biogeography"	NA	NA	"Abstract Aim It is widely recognized that the prediction of invasion success at large biogeographical scales requires jointly accounting for alien species traits and local community filters, such as abiotic conditions, biotic interactions and propagule pressure. Despite this recognition, interactions between traits and community filters are generally neglected. Here, we aim to address this limitation by developing a hierarchical framework that builds on trait‐based theory to model occurrences of alien species as a function of spatially explicit variables, filtering invasions and their interactions with species traits."	"27"	"10"	"1173–1185"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/geb.12775"	NA	"pubid: KqW5XₒlkfQC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Constraints on the functional trait space of aquatic invertebrates in bromeliads"	"Céréghino, Régis ; Pillar, Valério D. ; Srivastava, Diane S. ; de Omena, Paula M. ; MacDonald, A. Andrew M. ; Barberis, Ignacio M. ; Corbara, Bruno ; Guzman, Laura M. ; Leroy, Céline ; Ospina Bautista, Fabiola ; Romero, Gustavo Q. ; Trzcinski, M. Kurtis ; Kratina, Pavel ; Debastiani, Vanderlei J. ; Gonçalves, Ana Z. ; Marino, Nicholas A. C. ; Farjalla, Vinicius F. ; Richardson, Barbara A. ; Richardson, Michael J. ; Dézerald, Olivier ; Gilbert, Benjamin ; Petermann, Jana ; Talaga, Stanislas ; Piccoli, Gustavo C. O. ; Jocqué, Merlijn ; Montero, Guillermo"	"Functional Ecology"	NA	NA	"Abstract 1.Functional traits are commonly used in predictive models that link environmental drivers and community structure to ecosystem functioning. A prerequisite is to identify robust sets of continuous axes of trait variation, and to understand the ecological and evolutionary constraints that result in the functional trait space occupied by interacting species. Despite their diversity and role in ecosystem functioning, little is known of the constraints on the functional trait space of invertebrate biotas of entire biogeographic regions. 2.We examined the ecological strategies and constraints underlying the realized trait space of aquatic invertebrates, using data on 12 functional traits of 852 taxa collected in tank bromeliads from Mexico to Argentina. Principal Component Analysis was used to reduce trait dimensionality to significant axes of trait variation, and the proportion of potential trait space that is actually occupied by all taxa was compared to null model expectations. Permutational Analyses of Variance were used to test whether trait combinations were clade?dependent. 3.The major axes of trait variation represented life history strategies optimizing resource use, and anti?predator adaptations. There was evidence for trophic, habitat, defence and life history niche axes. Bromeliad invertebrates only occupied 16?23% of the potential space within these dimensions, due to greater concentrations than predicted under uniform or normal distributions. Thus, despite high taxonomic diversity, invertebrates only utilized a small number of successful ecological strategies. 4.Empty areas in trait space represented gaps between major phyla that arose from biological innovations, and trait combinations that are unviable in the bromeliad ecosystem. Only a few phylogenetically?distant genera were neighbouring in trait space. Trait combinations aggregated taxa by family and then by order, suggesting that niche conservatism was a widespread mechanism in the diversification of ecological strategies. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved."	"32"	"10"	"2435–2447"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/1365-2435.13141"	NA	"pubid: mgoTDWlsYNUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Low extinction risk for an important plant resource: Conservation assessments of continental African palms (Arecaceae/Palmae)"	"Cosiaux, Ariane ; Gardiner, Lauren M. ; Stauffer, Fred W. ; Bachman, Steven P. ; Sonké, Bonaventure ; Baker, William J. ; Couvreur, Thomas L. P."	"Biological Conservation"	NA	NA	"Although the palm flora of continental Africa totals just 66 species, they are amongst the most useful plants across the continent, providing many important resources for human populations. Studies have shown that African palms will likely be negatively affected by global change, leading to increased threats to their survival. Here we conduct the first full global conservation assessment for 61 continental African palm species following IUCN Red List Categories and Criteria. Our study revealed that fewer than 10% of the evaluated species were assessed as Threatened. Within the Threatened category, one species was assessed as Critically Endangered, three as Endangered and two as Vulnerable. These results underline an overall low extinction risk for African palms in the immediate future, which is substantially lower than the global estimate of 21% for all plants. These results could be linked to the generally large distribution patterns of African palm species, the broad ecological amplitudes of most species and their good representation inside the African protected areas network. However, a non-negligible number of species (∼15%) lack sufficient data to be properly assessed. This highlights the importance of further studies to improve our basic understanding of their distribution and threats. Our study provides a rather optimistic view of this highly important African plant resource yet, some widespread species are becoming locally rare due to over-harvesting for human use. At a local level, palm resources are generally non-sustainably exploited, which, coupled with climate change, could lead to a rapid increase in threat status over time."	"221"	"April"	"323–333"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.biocon.2018.02.025"	NA	"pubid: q09DtPQ₄34C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Unraveling rain forest biodiversity: An interview with Thomas Couvreur"	"Couvreur, Thomas L. P."	"BMC Biology"	NA	NA	"Thomas Couvreur is a researcher and botanist at the Institut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD), based in Montpellier, France, studying tropical biosystems. He is using diverse approaches—from taxonomy, molecular phylogenetics, phylogeography, to modeling species distribution—to understand the evolution and resilience of biodiversity in rain forests. In this interview, Thomas describes the ongoing research in his lab, the most urgent challenges and opportunities in biodiversity research, and the importance of knowing how to code."	"16"	"1"	"127"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1186/s12915-018-0594-4"	NA	"pubid: -LHtoeeytlUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Flow intermittence and ecosystem services in rivers of the Anthropocene"	"Datry, Thibault ; Boulton, Andrew J. ; Bonada, Núria ; Fritz, Ken ; Leigh, Catherine ; Sauquet, Eric ; Tockner, Klement ; Hugueny, Bernard ; Dahm, Clifford N."	"Journal of Applied Ecology"	NA	NA	"1. Intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams (IRES) are watercourses that cease flow at some point in time and space. Arguably Earth's most widespread type of flowing water, IRES are expanding where Anthropocenic climates grow drier and human demands for water escalate. 2. However, IRES have attracted far less research than perennial rivers and are under- valued by society, jeopardizing their restoration or protection. Provision of ecosys- tem services by IRES is especially poorly understood, hindering their integration into management plans in most countries. 3. We conceptualize how flow intermittence governs ecosystem service provision and transfers at local and river-basin scales during flowing, non-flowing and dry phases. Even when dry or not flowing, IRES perform multiple ecosystem services that complement those of nearby perennial rivers. 4. Synthesis and applications. Conceptualizing how flow intermittence in rivers and streams governs ecosystem services has applied a socio-ecological perspective for validating the ecosystem services of intermittent rivers and ephemeral streams. This can be applied at all flow phases and in assessing impacts of altered flow inter- mittence on rivers and their ecosystem services in the Anthropocene."	"55"	"1"	"353–364"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/1365-2664.12941"	NA	"pubid: Zbx7W2Xs4QsC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Beyond trees: Biogeographical regionalization of tropical Africa"	"Droissart, Vincent ; Dauby, Gilles ; Hardy, Oliver J. ; Deblauwe, Vincent ; Harris, David J. ; Janssens, Steven B. ; MacKinder, Barbara A. ; Blach-Overgaard, Anne ; Sonké, Bonaventure ; Sosef, Marc S. M. ; Stévart, Tariq ; Svenning, Jens-Christian ; Wieringa, Jan J. ; Couvreur, Thomas L. P."	"Journal of Biogeography"	NA	NA	"Aim To delineate bioregions in tropical Africa and determine whether different plant growth forms (trees, terrestrial herbs, lianas and shrubs) display the same pattern of regionalization, diversity and endemism as the whole flora. Location Tropical Africa (excl. Madagascar), from 20° N to 25° S. Taxon Vascular plants. Methods Analyses were based on occurrences of 24,719 vascular plant species distributed across tropical Africa extracted from the RAINBIO database. The majority of species (93%) were classified into four growth forms: terrestrial herbs, trees, shrubs and lianas. Biogeographical regions (bioregions) were delimited using a bipartite network clustering approach on the whole dataset and then separately for each growth form. Relationships among bioregions were investigated using non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination, flora nestedness and endemism patterns. Results Analyses of the whole dataset identified 16 bioregions and 11 transition zones. These were congruent with most of the currently recognized phytogeographical classifications, and also highlighted previously under-recognized bioregions. Bioregion endemism rates were lower and species richness higher when compared to estimates from the White/Association pour l'Etude Taxonomique de la Flore d'Afrique Tropicale (AETFAT) classification. Analysed separately, plant growth forms showed contrasting geographical patterns. Bioregionalization was better resolved for closed forest types using trees and lianas and for open vegetation types using terrestrial herbs, while shrubs showed good discriminative power in all vegetation types. Main conclusions We show that distribution patterns based on solely trees are not sufficient to define floristic bioregions in tropical Africa. Analyses of spatial patterns using different growth forms are complementary, likely reflecting different evolutionary processes and ecological relationships. The contribution of growth forms to delimit geographical floristic patterns across tropical Africa is of critical importance for land use planning and management, and for selecting priority conservation areas."	"45"	"5"	"1153–1167"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/jbi.13190"	NA	"pubid: JavbeYVQWIC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Plant functional diversity and the biogeography of biomes in North and South America"	"Echeverría-Londoño, Susy ; Enquist, Brian J. ; Neves, Danilo M. ; Violle, Cyrille ; Boyle, Brad ; Kraft, Nathan J. B. ; Maitner, Brian S. ; McGill, Brian J. ; Peet, Robert K. ; Sandel, Brody ; Smith, Stephen A. ; Svenning, Jens-Christian ; Wiser, Susan K. ; Kerkhoff, Andrew J."	"Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution"	NA	NA	"The concept of the biome has a long history dating back to Carl Ludwig Willdenow and Alexander von Humboldt. However, while the association between climate and the structure and diversity of vegetation has a long history, scientists have only recently begun to develop a more synthetic understanding of biomes based on the evolution of plant diversity, function, and community assembly. At the broadest scales, climate filters species based on their functional attributes, and the resulting functional differences in dominant vegetation among biomes are important to modeling the global carbon cycle and the functioning of the Earth system. Nevertheless, across biomes, plant species have been shown to occupy a common set of global functional ‘spectra,' reflecting variation in overall plant size, leaf economics, and hydraulics. Still, comprehensive measures of functional diversity and assessments of functional similarity have not been compared across biomes at continental to global scales. Here, we examine distributions of functional diversity of plant species across the biomes of North and South America, based on distributional information for ¿80,000 vascular plant species and functional trait data for ca. 8,000 of those species. First, we show that despite progress in data integration and synthesis, significant knowledge shortfalls persist that limit our ability to quantify the functional biodiversity of biomes. Second, our analyses of the available data show that all the biomes in North and South America share a common pattern - most geographically common, widespread species in any biome tend to be functionally similar while the most functionally distinctive species are restricted in their distribution. Third, when only the widespread and functionally similar species in each biome are considered, biomes can be more readily distinguished functionally, and patterns of dissimilarity between biomes appear to reflect a correspondence between climate and functional niche space. Taken together, our results suggest that while the study of the functional diversity of biomes is still in its formative stages, further development of the field will yield insights linking evolution, biogeography, community assembly, and ecosystem function."	"6"	"December"	"219"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3389/fevo.2018.00219"	"https://www.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fevo.2018.00219/full"	"pubid: qSd0DAb9jMoC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Crop competition in winter wheat has a higher potential than farming practices to regulate weeds"	"Gaba, Sabrina ; Caneill, Jacques ; Nicolardot, Bernard ; Perronne, Rémi ; Bretagnolle, Vincent"	"Ecosphere"	NA	NA	"Management of biotic interactions has been recognized as a potential substitute for costly agrochemical inputs. Competition is one of the most important biotic interactions known to regulate populations and govern species assemblages. However, although theoretical and empirical work has been produced on competition, in situ experimental evidence is much scantier, mainly because of the difficulty of manipulating competition in the field. Arable weeds offer an outstanding opportunity to meet this challenge, because of the relative ease of in situ experimental manipulation and because of the urgent need to find sustainable weed management strategies. Here, we assess the importance of crop competition and two main conventional farming practices (N fertilizer and weed control) on weed species richness, abundance, and biomass. We set up an experiment with a design with two factors, presence/absence of crops and presence/absence of N fertilizer and weed control, in working farm fields with winter cereals as the target crop. We found that the crop competition reduced weed biomass production by almost 65%, as a result of the crop's competitive advantage from its greater ability to take up N, while the effect on weed species richness was less important. Our results also show that the effect of crop competition on the weed assemblage was much stronger than the effect of N fertilizer and weed control. The decrease in weed abundance and biomass mainly resulted from a strong effect of the crop on the dominant species, while the abundance of intermediate species tended to be much less affected, a result consistent with studies in grasslands where the removal of the dominant species provides a competitive release for subordinate ones. Our results further give experimental support for crop competition as a way to reduce costly agricultural inputs for weed control. Conducting experiments with farmers in their field is a valuable approach to generate knowledge for the future delivery of sustainable management."	"9"	"10"	"e02413"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1002/ecs2.2413"	NA	"pubid: Oj-SLI0tZTcC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Functional rarity of coral reef fishes at the global scale: Hotspots and challenges for conservation"	"Grenié, Matthias ; Mouillot, David ; Villéger, Sébastien ; Denelle, Pierre ; Tucker, Caroline M. ; Munoz, François ; Violle, Cyrille"	"Biological Conservation"	NA	NA	"Characterizing functional diversity has become central in ecological research and for biodiversity assessment. Understanding the role of species with rare traits, i.e. functionally rare species, in community assembly, ecosystem dynamics and functioning has recently gained momentum. However, functional rarity is still ignored in conservation strategies. Here, we quantified global functional and evolutionary rarity for 2073 species of coral reef fishes and compared the rarity values to IUCN Red List status. Most species were functionally common but geographically rare. However, we found very weak correlation between functional rarity and evolutionary rarity. Functional rarity was highest for species classified as not evaluated or threatened by the IUCN Red List. The location of functional rarity hotspots (Tropical Eastern Pacific) did not match hotspots of species richness and evolutionary distinctiveness (Indo-Australian Archipelago), nor the currently protected areas. We argue that functional rarity should be acknowledged for both species and site prioritization in conservation strategies."	"226"	"August"	"288–299"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.biocon.2018.08.011"	NA	"pubid: gkldIfsazJcC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"A combinatorial analysis using observational data identifies species that govern ecosystem functioning"	"Jaillard, Benoît ; Deleporte, Philippe ; Loreau, Michel ; Violle, Cyrille"	"PLoS ONE"	NA	NA	"Understanding the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning has so far resulted from two main approaches: the analysis of species' functional traits, and the analy- sis of species interaction networks. Here we propose a third approach, based on the associ- ation between combinations of species or of functional groups, which we term assembly motifs, and observed ecosystem functioning. Each assembly motif describes a biotic envi- ronment in which species interactions have particular effects on a given ecosystem function. Clustering species in functional groups generates a classification of ecosystems based on their assembly motif. We evaluate the quality of each species clustering, that is its ability to predict an ecosystem function, by the coefficient of determination of the ecosystem classifi- cation. An iterative process then enables identifying the species clustering in functional groups that best accounts for the functioning of the observed ecosystems. We test this approach using experimental and simulated datasets. We show that our combinatorial anal- ysis makes it possible to identify the combinations of functional groups of species whose interactions govern ecosystem functioning without any a priori knowledge of the species themselves or their interactions. Our combinatorial approach reproduces the associative learning of empirical ecologists, and proves to be powerful and parsimonious."	"13"	"8"	"e0201135"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1371/journal.pone.0201135"	NA	"pubid: F9HO9s0W2bwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"An a posteriori species clustering for quantifying the effects of species interactions on ecosystem functioning"	"Jaillard, Benoît ; Richon, Camille ; Deleporte, Philippe ; Loreau, Michel ; Violle, Cyrille"	"Methods in Ecology and Evolution"	NA	NA	"Quantifying the effects of species interactions is key to understanding the relationships between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning but remains elusive due to combinatorics issues. Functional groups have been commonly used to capture the diversity of forms and functions and thus simplify the reality. However, the explicit incorporation of species interactions is still lacking in functional group-based approaches. Here, we propose a new approach based on an a posteriori clustering of species to quantify the effects of species interactions on ecosystem functioning. We first decompose the observed ecosystem function using null models, in which species diversity does not affect ecosystem function, to separate the effects of species interactions and species composition. This allows the identification of a posteriori functional groups that have contrasting diversity effects on ecosystem functioning. We then develop a formal combinatorial model of species interactions in which an ecosystem is described as a combination of co-occurring functional groups, which we call an assembly motif. Each assembly motif corresponds to a particular biotic environment. We demonstrate the relevance of our approach using datasets from a microbial experiment and the long-term Cedar Creek Biodiversity II experiment. We show that our a posteriori approach is more accurate, more efficient and more parsimonious than a priori approaches. The discrepancy between a priori and a posteriori approaches results from the way each clustering is set up: a priori approaches are based on ecosystem or species properties, such as ecosystem size (number of species or functional groups) or species' functional traits, whereas our a posteriori approach is based only on the observed interaction and composition effects on ecosystem functioning. Our findings demonstrate that an a posteriori approach is highly explanatory: it identifies who interacts with whom, and quantifies the effects of species interactions on ecosystem functioning. They also highlight that a combinatorial modelling of ecosystem functioning can predict the functioning of an ecosystem without any hypothesis about the biotic or environmental determinants or any information on species functional traits. It only requires the species composition of the ecosystem and the observed functioning of others that share the same assembly motif."	"9"	"3"	"704–715"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/2041-210X.12920"	"https://besjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/2041-210X.12920"	"pubid: RgznTc0nqo4C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Effect of geogenic lead on fungal and collembolan communities in garden topsoil"	"Joimel, Sophie ; Capiaux, Hervé ; Schwartz, Christophe ; Hedde, Mickaël ; Lebeau, Thierry ; Le Guern, Cécile ; Nahmani, Johanne ; Pernin, Céline ; Salmon, Sandrine ; Santorufo, Lucia ; Béchet, Béatrice ; Cortet, Jérôme"	"Pedosphere"	NA	NA	"Geogenic lead (Pb) is considered to be less bioavailable than anthropogenic Pb and exerts less effect on the soil fauna. However, Pb contamination in vegetables has been reported in the case of geogenic anomalies, even at moderate concentrations (around 170 mg kg–1). In this study, we investigated collembolan communities using both taxonomic- and trait-based approaches and observed fungal communities to assess the effects of a moderate geogenic Pb anomaly on collembolans and fungi in an urban vegetable garden soil. Results indicated that geogenic Pb indeed modified fungi communities and altered the functional structure of collembolan communities in garden soils. Although geogenic Pb presented low bioavailability, it affected soil fauna and vegetables similar to anthropogenic Pb."	"28"	"2"	"215–226"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/S1002-0160(18)60022-0"	NA	"pubid: IvSMUa3B7yYC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Are Collembola \"flying\" onto green roofs?"	"Joimel, Sophie ; Grard, Baptiste ; Auclerc, Apolline ; Hedde, Mickaël ; Le Doaré, Nolwenn ; Salmon, Sandrine ; Chenu, Claire"	"Ecological Engineering"	NA	NA	"Green roofs, especially productive ones (e.g. of edible biomass), are urban ecosystems developed in response to the scarcity of arable areas in urban environments. Their installation is also perceived as a possible way to preserve biodiversity in cities. However, the effectiveness of green roofs in supporting biodiversity, especially soil biodiversity, has rarely been studied. In order to orient the ecological engineering of green roofs, it is crucial to understand the resulting biodiversity patterns. We hypothesised that a functional trait-based approach could be used to investigate different ways of colonisation. We investigated collembolan communities in both extensive and productive green roofs. Surprisingly, no difference was observed in either taxonomic or functional structures of collembolan diversity between extensive and productive green roofs. Conversely, according to the functional composition, two ways of colonisation are suggested: a passive wind dispersal − the “flying” collembolans − and a settlement through compost inputs. We conclude that stakeholders should take into account the spatial connections of green roofs with other green spaces in order to support soil biodiversity. Further studies are needed to more accurately elucidate the importance of green roof types for collembolan communities and associated ecological networks."	"111"	"December 2017"	"117–124"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.ecoleng.2017.12.002"	NA	"pubid: uEM9VtRl8xsC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Macroecological and macroevolutionary patterns emerge in the universe of GNU/Linux operating systems"	"Keil, Petr ; MacDonald, A. Andrew M. ; Ramirez, Kelly S. ; Bennett, Joanne M. ; García-Peña, Gabriel E. ; Yguel, Benjamin ; Bourgeois, Bérenger ; Meyer, Carsten"	"Ecography"	NA	NA	"What leads to classically recognized patterns of biodiversity remains an open and contested question. It remains unknown if observed patterns are generated by biological or non-biological mechanisms, or if we should expect the patterns to emerge in non-biological systems. Here, we employ analogies between GNU/Linux operating systems (distros), a non-biological system, and biodiversity, and we look for a number of well-established ecological and evolutionary patterns in the Linux universe. We demonstrate that patterns of the Linux universe generally match macroecological patterns. Particularly, Linux distro commonness and rarity follow a skewed distribution with a clear excess of rare distros, we observed a power law mean-variance scaling of temporal fluctuation, but there is only a weak relationship between niche breadth (number of software packages) and commonness. The diversity in the Linux universe also follows general macroevolutionary patterns: The number of phylogenetic lineages increases linearly through time, with clear per-species diversification and extinction slowdowns, something that has been indirectly estimated, but not directly observed in biology. Moreover, the composition of functional traits (software packages) exhibits significant phylogenetic signal. The emergence of macroecological patterns across Linux suggests that the patterns are produced independently of system identity, which points to the possibility of non-biological drivers of fundamental biodiversity patterns. At the same time, our study provides a step towards using Linux as a model system for exploring macroecological and macroevolutionary patterns. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved."	"41"	"11"	"1788–1800"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ecog.03424"	NA	"pubid: bCjgOgSFrM0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"A global checklist of the bombycoidea (insecta: Lepidoptera)"	"Kitching, Ian J. ; Rougerie, Rodolphe ; Zwick, Andreas ; Hamilton, Chris ; St Laurent, Ryan ; Naumann, Stefan ; Ballesteros-Mejia, Liliana ; Kawahara, Akito"	"Biodiversity Data Journal"	NA	NA	"Bombycoidea is an ecologically diverse and speciose superfamily of Lepidoptera. The superfamily includes many model organisms, but the taxonomy and classification of the superfamily has remained largely in disarray. Here we present a global checklist of Bombycoidea. Following Zwick (2008) and Zwick et al. (2011), ten families are recognized: Anthelidae, Apatelodidae, Bombycidae, Brahmaeidae, Carthaeidae, Endromidae, Eupterotidae, Phiditiidae, Saturniidae and Sphingidae. The former families Lemoniidae and Mirinidae are included within Brahmaeidae and Endromidae respectively. The former bombycid subfamilies Oberthueriinae and Prismostictinae are also treated as synonyms of Endromidae, and the former bombycine subfamilies Apatelodinae and Phitditiinae are treated as families. This checklist represents the first effort to synthesize the current taxonomic treatment of the entire superfamily. It includes 12,159 names and references to their authors, and it accounts for the recent burst in species and subspecies descriptions within family Saturniidae (ca. 1,500 within the past 10 years) and to a lesser extent in Sphingidae (ca. 250 species over the same period). The changes to the higher classification of Saturniidae proposed by Nässig et al. (2015) are rejected as premature and unnecessary. The new tribes, subtribes and genera described by Cooper (2002) are here treated as junior synonyms. We also present a new higher classification of Sphingidae, based on Kawahara et al. (2009), Barber and Kawahara (2013) and a more recent phylogenomic study by Breinholt et al. (2017), as well as a reviewed genus and species level classification, as documented by Kitching (2018)."	"6"	NA	"e22236"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3897/bdj.6.e22236"	NA	"pubid: RJNGbXJAtMsC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2018"	"Geographic variation in the composition and function of parrotfishes"	"Kulbicki, Michel ; Friedlander, Alan M. ; Mouillot, David ; Parravicini, Valeriano"	NA	"The biology and ecology of parrotfishes"	"Hoey, A. ; Bellwood, David R. ; Bonaldo, R."	NA	NA	NA	"215–244"	"CRC Press/Taylor & Francis Group"	"Boca Raton, FL, USA"	NA	NA	"https://www.taylorfrancis.com/books/e/9781315118079"	"pubid: AkkBXT-jcoC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Tree size and climatic water deficit control root to shoot ratio in individual trees globally"	"Ledo, Alicia ; Paul, Keryn I. ; Burslem, David F. R. P. ; Ewel, John J. ; Barton, Craig V. M. ; Battaglia, Michael ; Brooksbank, Kim ; Carter, Jennifer ; Eid, Tron Haakon ; England, Jacqueline R. ; Fitzgerald, Anthony ; Jonson, Justin ; Mencuccini, Maurizio ; Montagu, Kelvin D. ; Montero, Gregorio ; Mugasha, Wilson Ancelm ; Pinkard, Elizabeth ; Roxburgh, Stephen H. ; Ryan, Casey M. ; Ruiz-Peinado, Ricardo ; Sochacki, Stan ; Specht, Alison ; Wildy, Daniel ; Wirth, Christian ; Zerihun, Ayalsew ; Chave, Jérôme"	"New Phytologist"	NA	NA	"The main novel finding ofthis study is that globally, variation in individual tree R :S is largely dominated by two effects: tree size and MWD, which largely support our hypothesis. The increase in R :S in response to increasing climatic water deficit occurs independently of the size dependence in R :S, which supports the hypothesis that moisture availability drives global variation in R :S. With greater aridity, trees invest comparatively more resources to acquire soil water as it becomes a more limiting resource for growth and survival, and to provide a belowground reservoir of stored carbon for rapid regrowth following distur- bance. Plasticity in R :S has major implications for our under- standing of the contribution of vegetation to the global carbon cycle and responses to climatic change. Some parts ofthe globe are predicted to experience drying trends, including longer dry seasons, and an increase in the frequency of extreme events and distur- bances, while other regions may become wetter or less seasonal (Moss etal., 2010; Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), 2014). Our new results suggest that any change in water deficit, or in the relative abundance of smaller trees, may result in shifts in biomass allocation, with far-reaching consequences for the global carbon budget."	"217"	"1"	"8–11"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/nph.14863"	NA	"pubid: x2hKVfJWtf0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"What makes trait–abundance relationships when both environmental filtering and stochastic neutral dynamics are at play?"	"Loranger, Jessy ; Munoz, François ; Shipley, Bill ; Violle, Cyrille"	"Oikos"	NA	NA	"A major objective in ecology is to determine how local species abundances relate to their functional trait values (i.e. trait?abundance relationship), under a combined influence of 1) environmental filters affecting local species performance conditionally to trait values, 2) neutral demographic and immigration dynamics affecting abundances independently from these trait values, and 3) varying availability and frequency of species at regional level. We examined the nature and strength of the trait?abundance relationship in 30 000 simulated communities covering a gradient of the relative importance of niche?based environmental filtering and neutral stochastic processes, with heterogeneous regional species frequencies. We explored scenarios of directional, stabilizing and disruptive filtering differently affecting the success of species in communities, depending on their relative trait values. We evaluated how the four first moments of the trait distribution in a local community (i.e. abundance?weighted mean, variance, skewness and kurtosis) were influenced by immigration, environmental filtering and neutral dynamics. Then we determined whether including constraints related to these moments in a Bayesian maximum entropy regression improved the prediction of the trait?abundance relationships. First, we found pervasive influence of regional frequencies on local species abundances, related to regular input of immigrants. Second, the first four moments of the local trait distribution were affected by environmental filtering, the shape of the response depending on the type of filtering. Third, with decreasing immigration rate, the imprint of local demographic stochasticity overrode the impact of environmental filtering on trait?abundance relationships. Lastly, accounting for the mean and variance of local trait distribution appeared sufficient to explain the trait?abundance relationships in our regression framework, although their contribution differed depending on the type of environmental filtering. Therefore, the mean and variance of trait values in communities, two pillars of trait?gradient analyses in functional ecology, can capture the key influence of environmental filtering on local trait?abundance relationships. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved."	"127"	"12"	"1735–1745"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/oik.05398"	NA	"pubid: yKzB5RS27GgC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Habitat modelling of tracking data from multiple marine predators identifies important areas in the Southern Indian Ocean"	"Reisinger, Ryan R. ; Raymond, Ben ; Hindell, Mark A. ; Bester, Marthán N. ; Crawford, Robert J. M. ; Davies, Delia ; de Bruyn, P. J. Nico ; Dilley, Ben J. ; Kirkman, Stephen P. ; Makhado, Azwianewi B. ; Ryan, Peter G. ; Schoombie, Stefan ; Stevens, Kim ; Sumner, Michael D. ; Tosh, Cheryl A. ; Wege, Mia ; Whitehead, Thomas Otto ; Wotherspoon, Simon ; Pistorius, Pierre A."	"Diversity and Distributions"	NA	NA	"Aim: The distribution of marine predators is driven by the distribution and abundance of their prey; areas preferred by multiple marine predator species should therefore indicate areas of ecological significance. The Southern Ocean supports large populations of seabirds and marine mammals and is undergoing rapid environmental change. The management and conservation of these predators and their environment relies on understanding their distribution and its link with the biophysical environment, as the latter determines the distribution and abundance of prey. We addressed this issue using tracking data from 14 species of marine predators to identify important habitat. Location: Indian Ocean sector of the Southern Ocean. Methods: We used tracking data from 538 tag deployments made over a decade at the Subantarctic Prince Edward Islands. For each real track, we simulated a set of pseudo-tracks that allowed a presence-availability habitat modelling approach that estimates an animal's habitat preference. Using model ensembles of boosted regression trees and random forests, we modelled these tracks as a response to a set of 17 environmental variables. We combined the resulting species- specific models to evaluate areas of mean importance. Results: Real tracking locations covered 39.75 million km2, up to 7,813 km from the Prince Edward Islands. Areas of high mean importance were located broadly from the Subtropical Zone to the Polar Frontal Zone in summer and from the Subantarctic to Antarctic Zones in winter. Areas of high mean importance were best predicted by factors including wind speed, sea surface temperature, depth and current speed. Main conclusions: The models and predictions developed here identify important habitat of marine predators around the Prince Edward Islands and can support the large-scale conservation and management of Subantarctic ecosystems and the marine predators they sustain. The results also form the basis of future efforts to predict the consequences of environmental change."	"24"	"4"	"535–550"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ddi.12702"	NA	"pubid: 7XUxBq3GufIC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Spatial patterns and climate relationships of major plant traits in the New World differ between woody and herbaceous species"	"Símová, Irena ; Violle, Cyrille ; Svenning, Jens-Christian ; Kattge, Jens ; Engemann, Kristine ; Sandel, Brody ; Peet, Robert K. ; Wiser, Susan K. ; Blonder, Benjamin ; McGill, Brian J. ; Boyle, Brad ; Morueta-Holme, Naia ; Kraft, Nathan J. B. ; van Bodegom, Peter M. ; Gutiérrez, Alvaro G. ; Bahn, Michael ; Ozinga, Wim A. ; Tószögyová, Anna ; Enquist, Brian J."	"Journal of Biogeography"	NA	NA	"Aim Despite several recent efforts to map plant traits and to identify their climatic drivers, there are still major gaps. Global trait patterns for major functional groups, in particular, the differences between woody and herbaceous plants, have yet to be identified. Here, we take advantage of big data efforts to compile plant species occurrence and trait data to analyse the spatial patterns of assemblage means and variances of key plant traits. We tested whether these patterns and their climatic drivers are similar for woody and herbaceous plants. Location New World (North and South America). Methods Using the largest currently available database of plant occurrences, we provide maps of 200 × 200 km grid-cell trait means and variances for both woody and herbaceous species and identify environmental drivers related to these patterns. We focus on six plant traits: maximum plant height, specific leaf area, seed mass, wood density, leaf nitrogen concentration and leaf phosphorus concentration. Results For woody assemblages, we found a strong climate signal for both means and variances of most of the studied traits, consistent with strong environmental filtering. In contrast, for herbaceous assemblages, spatial patterns of trait means and variances were more variable, the climate signal on trait means was often different and weaker. Main conclusion Trait variations for woody versus herbaceous assemblages appear to reflect alternative strategies and differing environmental constraints. Given that most large-scale trait studies are based on woody species, the strikingly different biogeographic patterns of herbaceous traits suggest that a more synthetic framework is needed that addresses how suites of traits within and across broad functional groups respond to climate."	"45"	"4"	"895–916"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/jbi.13171"	"https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/jbi.13171"	"pubid: dhpJJ7xvgBgC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"What good is weed diversity?"	"Storkey, Jonathan ; Neve, P."	"Weed Research"	NA	NA	"Should the declining diversity of weed communities in conventionally managed arable fields be regarded as a problem? The answer to this question has tended to divide researchers into those whose primary focus is on conserving farmland biodiversity and those whose goals are dictated by weed control and maximising yield. Here, we argue that, regardless of how weeds are perceived, there are common ecological principles that should underpin any approach to managing weed communities, and, based on these principles, increasing in-field weed diversity could be advantageous agronomically as well as environmentally. We hypothesise that a more diverse weed community will be less competitive, less prone to dominance by highly adapted, herbicide-resistant species and that the diversity of the weed seedbank will be indicative of the overall sustainability of the cropping system. Common to these hypotheses is the idea that the intensification of agriculture has been accompanied by a homogenisation of cropping systems and landscapes, accounting for both declines in weed diversity and the reduced resilience of cropping systems (including the build-up of herbicide resistance). As such, weed communities represent a useful indicator of the success of rediversifying systems at multiple scales, which will be a central component of making agriculture and weed control more sustainable."	"58"	"4"	"239–243"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/wre.12310"	NA	"pubid: I2jIoRS3jIgC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2018"	"Functional structure and composition of Collembola and soil macrofauna communities depend on abiotic parameters in derelict soils"	"Vincent, Quentin ; Leyval, Corinne ; Beguiristain, Thierry ; Auclerc, Apolline"	"Applied Soil Ecology"	NA	NA	"In the last decades, anthropogenic disturbances have altered the ability of soils to provide diverse functions. Certain anthropogenic soils, with a low fertility level and often contaminated, ended up underused and derelict. Although derelict for humans, these soils may be refuges for biodiversity, but their biological functioning remains poorly understood. To this end, a trait-based approach of soil invertebrate communities might be an effective predictor of ecosystem state. The present work aims to highlight the in situ links between the abiotic characteristics of derelict soils and the taxonomic and functional structure and composition (through a trait-based approach) of macrofauna and Collembola communities inhabiting these soils. We studied 6 different derelict soils: two soils from coking plants, one soil from a settling pond, two constructed soils, and an inert waste storage soil. We measured fifteen abiotic soil parameters that inform on fertility and contamination. We took into account sixteen traits and ecological preferences to characterize the functional structure and composition of Collembola and macrofauna communities. Soil fertility (organic matter content, C:N ratio, P, Ca and Mg concentrations, cation-exchange capacity, and clay content) and moderate contamination (Pb, Cd, Zn, and PAH concentrations) altered the taxonomic and functional composition of Collembola and macrofauna communities by selecting traits such as body length, pigmentation, vertical distribution, diet type, and habitat preference. Compost-amended constructed soil properties selected taxonomic and functional community composition of slightly disturbed soil. In contrast, metal-contaminated constructed soil harbored a higher proportion of Collembola displaying the traits and ecological preferences of instable ecosystems. The study of functional profiles of Collembola and macrofauna communities in the derelict soils evidenced that they support different communities with more or less wide functional potential. It underlines the interest of multiple biotic component studies to reach a better ecosystem description."	"130"	NA	"259–270"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.apsoil.2018.07.002"	NA	"pubid: gFrPXmx1TSsC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"The paradox of re-oligotrophication: The role of bottom-up versus top-down controls on the phytoplankton community"	"Anneville, Orlane ; Chang, C. W. ; Dur, Gaël ; Souissi, S. ; Rimet, F. ; Hsieh, C. H."	"Oikos"	NA	NA	NA	"128"	"11"	"1666–1677"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/oik.06399"	NA	"pubid: MqTxh1vmwXEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"Important at-sea areas of colonial breeding marine predators on the Southern Patagonian Shelf"	"Baylis, Alastair M. M. ; Tierney, Megan ; Orben, Rachael A. ; Warwick-Evans, Victoria ; Wakefield, Ewan ; Grecian, W. James ; Trathan, Philip N. ; Reisinger, Ryan R. ; Ratcliffe, Norman ; Croxall, John ; Campioni, Letizia ; Catry, Paulo ; Crofts, Sarah ; Boersma, P. Dee ; Galimberti, Filippo ; Granadeiro, Jose ; Handley, Jonathan ; Hayes, Sean ; Hedd, April ; Masello, Juan F. ; Montevecchi, William A. ; Pütz, Klemens ; Quillfeldt, Petra ; Rebstock, Ginger A. ; Sanvito, Simona ; Staniland, Iain J. ; Brickle, Paul"	"Scientific Reports"	NA	NA	"The Patagonian Shelf Large Marine Ecosystem supports high levels of biodiversity and endemism and is one of the most productive marine ecosystems in the world. Despite the important role marine predators play in structuring the ecosystems, areas of high diversity where multiple predators congregate remains poorly known on the Patagonian Shelf. Here, we used biotelemetry and biologging tags to track the movements of six seabird species and three pinniped species breeding at the Falkland Islands. Using Generalized Additive Models, we then modelled these animals' use of space as functions of dynamic and static environmental indices that described their habitat. Based on these models, we mapped the predicted distribution of animals from both sampled and unsampled colonies and thereby identified areas where multiple species were likely to overlap at sea. Maximum foraging trip distance ranged from 79 to 1,325 km. However, most of the 1,891 foraging trips by 686 animals were restricted to the Patagonian Shelf and shelf slope, which highlighted a preference for these habitats. Of the seven candidate explanatory covariates used to predict distribution, distance from the colony was retained in models for all species and negatively affected the probability of occurrence. Predicted overlap among species was highest on the Patagonian Shelf around the Falkland Islands and the Burdwood Bank. The predicted area of overlap is consistent with areas that are also important habitat for marine predators migrating from distant breeding locations. Our findings provide comprehensive multi-species predictions for some of the largest marine predator populations on the Patagonian Shelf, which will contribute to future marine spatial planning initiatives. Crucially, our findings highlight that spatially explicit conservation measures are likely to benefit multiple species, while threats are likely to impact multiple species."	"9"	"1"	"8517"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41598-019-44695-1"	NA	"pubid: hrkNWuzUpWwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"What makes a weed a weed? A large-scale evaluation of arable weeds through a functional lens"	"Bourgeois, Bérenger ; Munoz, François ; Fried, Guillaume ; Mahaut, Lucie ; Armengot, Laura ; Denelle, Pierre ; Storkey, Jonathan ; Gaba, Sabrina ; Violle, Cyrille"	"American Journal of Botany"	NA	NA	NA	"106"	"1"	"90–100"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1002/ajb2.1213"	NA	"pubid: onKP9CxGSkIC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"Experimental and empirical evidence shows that reducing weed control in winter cereal fields is a viable strategy for farmers"	"Catarino, Rui ; Gaba, Sabrina ; Bretagnolle, Vincent"	"Scientific Reports"	NA	NA	"Modern agriculture needs a paradigm shift to make the world's food production sustainable while mitigating social and environmental externalities. Although various policies to limit the use of agrochemicals have recently been implemented in the European Union, the use of both herbicides and fertilizers has remained fairly constant. Farmers are assumed to behave optimally, producing the best they can, given the agronomic constraints of their fields. Based on this assumption, reducing agrochemicals should inevitably have negative effects on food production, or reduce farmers' incomes. Coupling empirical analysis based on field surveys and experimental trials where weed management and nitrogen input were manipulated in the same production fields and under real farming conditions, we demonstrate that high use of N fertiliser or intense weed control slightly increase yields, but that this increase is not enough to offset the additional costs incurred by their use. Our experimental design allowed inputs to be varied in a two-factor design, along a gradient spanning from organic to highly intensive farming, while holding all other conditions constant and thus avoiding confounding effects. Quantification of crop yields and gross margins from winter cereal farming showed that reducing dependence on weed management may not hamper cereal production in this system, and is economically profitable at the field level on the short term. Our study thus contributes to addressing a key gap in our economic knowledge, and gives hope for implementing win-win strategies for farmers and the environment."	"9"	"1"	"9004"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41598-019-45315-8"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-45315-8"	"pubid: koF6b02d8EEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"Consumptive effects and mismatch in predator–prey turnover rates cause inversion of biomass pyramids"	"de Omena, Paula M. ; Srivastava, Diane S. ; Romero, Gustavo Q."	"Oecologia"	NA	NA	NA	"190"	"1"	"159–168"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1007/s00442-019-04394-0"	"http://link.springer.com/10.1007/s00442-019-04394-0"	"pubid: Mx5hWS9ctUkC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"Distinguishing the signatures of local environmental filtering and regional trait range limits in the study of trait–environment relationships"	"Denelle, Pierre ; Violle, Cyrille ; Munoz, François"	"Oikos"	NA	NA	"Understanding the imprint of environmental filtering on community assembly along environmental gradients is a key objective of trait-gradient analyses. Depending on local constraints, this filtering generally entails that species departing from an optimum trait value have lower abundances in the community. The Community-Weighted Mean (CWM) and Variance (CWV) of trait values are then expected to depict the optimum and intensity of filtering, respectively. However, the trait distribution within the regional species pool and its limits can also affect local CWM and CWV values apart from the effect of environmental filtering. The regional trait range limits are more likely to be reached in communities at the extremes of environmental gradients. Analogous to the mid-domain effect in biogeography, decreasing CWV values in extreme environments can then represent the influence of regional trait range limits rather than stronger filtering in the local environment. We name this effect the ?Trait-Gradient Boundary Effect? (TGBE). First, we use a community assembly framework to build simulated communities along a gradient from a species pool and environmental filtering with either constant or varying intensity while accounting for immigration processes. We demonstrate the significant influence of TGBE, in parallel to environmental filtering, on CWM and CWV at the extremes of the environmental gradient. We provide a statistical tool based on Approximate Bayesian Computation to decipher the respective influence of local environmental filtering and regional trait range limits. Second, as a case study, we reanalyze the functional composition of alpine plant communities distributed along a gradient of snow cover duration. We show that leaf trait convergence found in communities at the extremes of the gradient reflect an influence of trait range limits rather than stronger environmental filtering. These findings challenge correlative trait-environment relationships and call for more explicitly identifying the mechanisms responsible of trait convergence/divergence along environmental gradients. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved."	"128"	"7"	"960–971"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/oik.05851"	NA	"pubid: wlzmIqt2EaEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"The commonness of rarity: Global and future distribution of rarity across land plants"	"Enquist, Brian J. ; Feng, Xiao ; Boyle, Brad ; Maitner, Brian S. ; Newman, Erica A. ; Jorgensen, Peter Møller ; Roehrdanz, Patrick R. ; Thiers, Barbara M. ; Burger, Joseph R. ; Corlett, Richard T. ; Couvreur, Thomas L. P. ; Dauby, Gilles ; Donoghue, John C. ; Foden, Wendy ; Lovett, Jon C. ; Marquet, Pablo A. ; Merow, Cory ; Midgley, Guy ; Morueta-Holme, Naia ; Neves, Danilo M. ; Oliveira-Filho, Ary T. ; Kraft, Nathan J. B. ; Park, Daniel S. ; Peet, Robert K. ; Pillet, Michiel ; Serra-Diaz, Josep M. ; Sandel, Brody ; Schildhauer, Mark P. ; Símová, Irena ; Violle, Cyrille ; Wieringa, Jan J. ; Wiser, Susan K. ; Hannah, Lee ; Svenning, Jens-Christian ; McGill, Brian J."	"Science Advances"	NA	NA	"A key feature of life's diversity is that some species are common but many more are rare. Nonetheless, at global scales, we do not know what fraction of biodiversity consists of rare species. Here, we present the largest compilation of global plant species observation data in order to quantify the fraction of Earth's extant land plant biodiversity that is common versus rare. Tests of different hypotheses for the origin of species commonness and rarity indicates that sampling biases and prominent models such as niche theory and neutral theory cannot account for the observed prevalence of rare species. Instead, the distribution of commonness is best approximated by heavy-tailed distributions like the Pareto or Poisson-lognormal distributions. As a result, a large fraction, ∼36.5% of an estimated ∼435k total plant species, are exceedingly rare. We also show that rare species tend to cluster in a small number of ‘hotspots' mainly characterized by being in tropical and subtropical mountains and areas that have experienced greater climate stability. Our results indicate that (i) non-neutral processes, likely associated with reduced risk of extinction, have maintained a large fraction of Earth's plant species but that (ii) climate change and human impact appear to now and will disproportionately impact rare species. Together, these results point to a large fraction of Earth's plant species are faced with increased chances of extinction. Our results indicate that global species abundance distributions have important implications for conservation planning in this era of rapid global change."	"5"	"11"	"eaaz0414"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1126/sciadv.aaz0414"	NA	"pubid: 43B52WW2E64C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"Early colonisation of constructed technosols by macro-invertebrates"	"Hedde, Mickaël ; Nahmani, Johanne ; Séré, Geoffroy ; Auclerc, Apolline ; Cortet, Jérôme"	"Journal of Soils and Sediments"	NA	NA	NA	"19"	"8"	"3193–3203"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1007/s11368-018-2142-9"	NA	"pubid: jKT558fuBk8C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"Movement responses to environment: Fast inference of variation among southern elephant seals with a mixed effects model"	"Jonsen, Ian D. ; McMahon, Clive R. ; Patterson, T. A. ; Auger-Méthé, M. ; Harcourt, Rob ; Hindell, Mark A. ; Bestley, S."	"Ecology"	NA	NA	"Like many species, movement patterns of southern elephant seals (Mirounga leonina) are being influenced by long-term environmental change. These seals migrate up to 4,000 km from their breeding colonies, foraging for months in a variety of Southern Ocean habitats. Understanding how movement patterns vary with environmental features and how these relationships differ among individuals employing different foraging strategies can provide insight into foraging performance at a population level. We apply new fast-estimation tools to fit mixed effects within a random walk move- ment model, rapidly inferring among-individual variability in southern elephant seal environment– movement relationships. We found that seals making foraging trips to the sea ice on or near the Antarctic continental shelf consistently reduced speed and directionality (move persistence) with increasing sea-ice coverage but had variable responses to chlorophyll a concentration, whereas seals foraging in the open ocean reduced move persistence in regions where circumpolar deep water shoaled. Given future climate scenarios, open-ocean foragers may encounter more productive habitat but sea- ice foragers may see reduced habitat availability. Our approach is scalable to large telemetry data sets and allows flexible combinations of mixed effects to be evaluated via model selection, thereby illumi- nating the ecological context of animal movements that underlie habitat usage. Key"	"100"	"1"	"e02566"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1002/ecy.2566"	NA	"pubid: d6JCS5z0ckYC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"Remote reefs and seamounts are the last refuges for marine predators across the Indo-Pacific"	"Letessier, Tom B. ; Mouillot, David ; Bouchet, Phil J. ; Vigliola, Laurent ; Fernandes, Marjorie C. ; Thompson, Chris ; Boussarie, Germain ; Turner, Jemma ; Juhel, Jean-Baptiste ; Maire, Eva ; Caley, M. J. ; Koldewey, Heather J. ; Friedlander, Alan M. ; Sala, Enric ; Meeuwig, Jessica J."	"PLoS Biology"	NA	NA	"Since the 1950s, industrial fisheries have expanded globally, as fishing vessels are required to travel further afield for fishing opportunities. Technological advancements and fishery subsidies have granted ever-increasing access to populations of sharks, tunas, billfishes, and other predators. Wilderness refuges, defined here as areas beyond the detectable range of human influence, are therefore increasingly rare. In order to achieve marine resources sustainability, large no-take marine protected areas (MPAs) with pelagic components are being implemented. However, such conservation efforts require knowledge of the critical habitats for predators, both across shallow reefs and the deeper ocean. Here, we fill this gap in knowledge across the Indo-Pacific by using 1,041 midwater baited videos to survey sharks and other pelagic predators such as rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), mahi- mahi (Coryphaena hippurus), and black marlin (Istiompax indica). We modeled three key predator community attributes: vertebrate species richness, mean maximum body size, and shark abundance as a function of geomorphology, environmental conditions, and human pressures. All attributes were primarily driven by geomorphology (35%−62% variance explained) and environmental conditions (14%−49%). While human pressures had no influence on species richness, both body size and shark abundance responded strongly to distance to human markets (12%−20%). Refuges were identified at more than 1,250 km from human markets for body size and for shark abundance. These refuges were identified as remote and shallow seabed features, such as seamounts, submerged banks, and reefs. Worryingly, hotpots of large individuals and of shark abundance are presently underrepresented within no-take MPAs that aim to effectively protect marine predators, such as the British Indian Ocean Territory. Population recovery of predators is unlikely to occur without strategic placement and effective enforcement of large no-take MPAs in both coastal and remote locations."	"17"	"8"	"e3000366"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1371/journal.pbio.3000366"	NA	"pubid: 2BaaiyHPJIC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"A functional diversity approach of crop sequences reveals that weed diversity and abundance show different responses to environmental variability"	"Mahaut, Lucie ; Gaba, Sabrina ; Fried, Guillaume"	"Journal of Applied Ecology"	NA	NA	"Combining several crop species and associated agricultural practices in a crop sequence has the potential to control weed abundance while promoting weed diversity in arable fields. However, how the variability of environmental conditions that arise from crop sequences affects weed diversity and abundance remains poorly understood, with most studies to‐date simply opposing weed communities in monoculture and in crop rotation. Here, we describe crop sequences along gradients of disturbance and resource variability using a crop functional trait and associated agricultural practices. We tested the hypothesis that variability of disturbances reduces weed abundance while variability of resources promotes weed diversity. We used functional Hill's numbers to compute crop sequence functional diversity based on sowing date, herbicide spectrum and crop height ‐ these are the respective proxies of disturbance timings, disturbance types and light availability. Using a large‐scale weed monitoring database, we assessed crop sequence diversity for 1045 crop sequences of five consecutive cropping seasons. We computed weed richness and abundance at pluri‐annual (pool of weeds observed across five cropping seasons) and annual (pool of weeds observed during a winter cereal cropping season preceded by five cropping seasons) scales. We also accounted for herbicide and tillage intensities to test whether management intensity affects the response of weed diversity and abundance to crop sequence diversity. At the pluri‐annual scale, weed richness increased with the diversity of crop height and sowing date while weed abundance decreased with sowing date diversity. Annual weed richness decreased with sowing date diversity while annual weed abundance poorly relied on crop sequence diversity. Synthesis and applications. This study establishes a scientific basis for designing crop sequences according to specific weed management goals. We show that farmers may enhance arable weed diversity on a pluri‐annual scale by sequentially sowing crop species that differ in their competitive ability and sowing date. They may also achieve a better control of weed abundance by increasing the diversity of crop sowing dates across the crop sequence. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved."	"56"	"6"	"1400–1409"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/1365-2664.13389"	NA	"pubid: 6Zm5LS9gQ5UC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"Trait structure and redundancy determine sensitivity to disturbance in marine fish communities"	"McLean, Matthew ; Auber, Arnaud ; Graham, Nicholas A. J. ; Houk, Peter ; Villéger, Sébastien ; Violle, Cyrille ; Thuiller, Wilfried ; Wilson, Shaun K. ; Mouillot, David"	"Global Change Biology"	NA	NA	"'Functional' diversity is believed to influence ecosystem dynamics through links between organismal traits and ecosystem processes. Theory predicts that key traits and high trait redundancy-large species richness and abundance supporting the same traits-can buffer communities against environmental disturbances. While experiments and data from simple ecological systems lend support, large-scale evidence from diverse, natural systems under major disturbance is lacking. Here, using long-term data from both temperate (English Channel) and tropical (Seychelles Islands) fishes, we show that sensitivity to disturbance depends on communities' initial trait structure and initial trait redundancy. In both ecosystems, we found that increasing dominance by climatically-vulnerable traits rendered fish communities more sensitive to environmental change, while communities with higher trait redundancy were more resistant. To our knowledge, this is the first study demonstrating the influence of trait structure and redundancy on community sensitivity over large temporal and spatial scales in natural systems. Our results exemplify a consistent link between biological structure and community sensitivity that may be transferable across ecosystems and taxa and could help anticipate future disturbance impacts on biodiversity and ecosystem functioning."	"25"	"10"	"3424–3437"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/gcb.14662"	"https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/gcb.14662"	"pubid: ZYsTHYU9jrMC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"What is a tree in the Mediterranean Basin hotspot? A critical analysis"	"Médail, Frédéric ; Monnet, Anne-Christine ; Pavon, Daniel ; Nikolic, Toni ; Dimopoulos, Panayotis ; Bacchetta, Gianluigi ; Arroyo, Juan ; Barina, Zoltán ; Cheikh Albassatneh, Marwan ; Domina, Gianniantonio ; Fady, Bruno ; Matevski, Vlado ; Mifsud, Stephen ; Leriche, Agathe"	"Forest Ecosystems"	NA	NA	NA	"6"	"1"	"17"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1186/s40663-019-0170-6"	"https://forestecosyst.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s40663-019-0170-6"	"pubid: HAmI6pRF5skC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"The contribution of spatial mass effects to plant diversity in arable fields"	"Metcalfe, Helen ; Hassall, Kirsty L. ; Boinot, Sébastien ; Storkey, Jonathan"	"Journal of Applied Ecology"	NA	NA	NA	"56"	"7"	"1560–1574"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/1365-2664.13414"	NA	"pubid: nroGzMJTTpEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"Testing the generality of below-ground biomass allometry across plant functional types"	"Paul, Keryn I. ; Larmour, John ; Specht, Alison ; Zerihun, Ayalsew ; Ritson, Peter ; Roxburgh, Stephen H. ; Sochacki, Stan ; Lewis, Tom ; Barton, Craig V. M. ; England, Jacqueline R. ; Battaglia, Michael ; O'Grady, Anthony ; Pinkard, Elizabeth ; Applegate, Grahame ; Jonson, Justin ; Brooksbank, Kim ; Sudmeyer, Rob ; Wildy, Daniel ; Montagu, Kelvin D. ; Bradford, Matt ; Butler, Don ; Hobbs, Trevor"	"Forest Ecology and Management"	NA	NA	"Accurate quantification of below-ground biomass (BGB) of woody vegetation is critical to understanding ecosystem function and potential for climate change mitigation from sequestration of biomass carbon. We compiled 2054 measurements of planted and natural individual tree and shrub biomass from across different regions of Australia (arid shrublands to tropical rainforests) to develop allometric models for prediction of BGB. We found that the relationship between BGB and stem diameter was generic, with a simple power-law model having a BGB prediction efficiency of 72–93% for four broad plant functional types: (i) shrubs and Acacia trees, (ii) multi-stemmed mallee eucalypts, (iii) other trees of relatively high wood density, and; (iv) a species of relatively low wood density, Pinus radiata D. Don. There was little improvement in accuracy of model prediction by including variables (e.g. climatic characteristics, stand age or management) in addition to stem diameter alone. We further assessed the generality of the plant functional type models across 11 contrasting stands where data from whole-plot excavation of BGB were available. The efficiency of model prediction of stand-based BGB was 93%, with a mean absolute prediction error of only 6.5%, and with no improvements in validation results when species-specific models were applied. Given the high prediction performance of the generalised models, we suggest that additional costs associated with the development of new species-specific models for estimating BGB are only warranted when gains in accuracy of stand-based predictions are justifiable, such as for a high-biomass stand comprising only one or two dominant species. However, generic models based on plant functional type should not be applied where stands are dominated by species that are unusual in their morphology and unlikely to conform to the generalised plant functional group models."	"432"	"September 2018"	"102–114"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.foreco.2018.08.043"	"https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foreco.2018.08.043"	"pubid: pxXbYLTb8EgC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"Energetic equivalence underpins the size structure of tree and phytoplankton communities"	"Perkins, Daniel M. ; Perna, Andrea ; Adrian, Rita ; Cermeño, Pedro ; Gaedke, Ursula ; Huete-Ortega, Maria ; White, Ethan P. ; Yvon-Durocher, Gabriel"	"Nature Communications"	NA	NA	"The size structure of autotroph communities – the relative abundance of small vs. large individuals – shapes the functioning of ecosystems. Whether common mechanisms underpin the size structure of unicellular and multicellular autotrophs is, however, unknown. Using a global data compilation, we show that individual body masses in tree and phytoplankton communities follow power-law distributions and that the average exponents of these individual size distributions (ISD) differ. Phytoplankton communities are characterized by an average ISD exponent consistent with three-quarter-power scaling of metabolism with body mass and equivalence in energy use among mass classes. Tree communities deviate from this pattern in a manner consistent with equivalence in energy use among diameter size classes. Our findings suggest that whilst universal metabolic constraints ultimately underlie the emergent size structure of autotroph communities, divergent aspects of body size (volumetric vs. linear dimensions) shape the ecological outcome of metabolic scaling in forest vs. pelagic ecosystems."	"10"	"1"	"255"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41467-018-08039-3"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-08039-3"	"pubid: 10A3hb2jUxYC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2019"	"A third of the tropical African flora is potentially threatened with extinction"	"Stévart, Tariq ; Dauby, Gilles ; Lowry, Porter P. ; Blach-Overgaard, Anne ; Droissart, Vincent ; Harris, David J. ; MacKinder, Barbara A. ; Schatz, George E. ; Sonké, Bonaventure ; Sosef, Marc S. M. ; Svenning, Jens-Christian ; Wieringa, Jan J. ; Couvreur, Thomas L. P."	"Science Advances"	NA	NA	NA	"5"	"11"	"eaax9444"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1126/sciadv.aax9444"	NA	"pubid: yNlG6JgpFqoC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"A global food plant dataset for wild silkmoths and hawkmoths and its use in documenting polyphagy of their caterpillars (Lepidoptera: Bombycoidea: Saturniidae, Sphingidae)"	"Ballesteros-Mejia, Liliana ; Arnal, Pierre ; Hallwachs, Winnie ; Haxaire, Jean ; Janzen, Daniel ; Kitching, Ian J. ; Rougerie, Rodolphe"	"Biodiversity Data Journal"	NA	NA	"Herbivorous insects represent a major fraction of global biodiversity and the relationships they have established with their food plants range from strict specialists to broad generalists. Our knowledge of these relationships is of primary importance to basic (e.g. the study of insect ecology and evolution) and applied biology (e.g. monitoring of pest or invasive species) and yet remains very fragmentary and understudied. In Lepidoptera, caterpillars of families Saturniidae and Sphingidae are rather well known and considered to have adopted contrasting preferences in their use of food plants. The former are regarded as being rather generalist feeders, whereas the latter are more specialist. To assemble and synthesise the vast amount of existing data on food plants of Lepidoptera families Saturniidae and Sphingidae, we combined three major existing databases to produce a dataset collating more than 26,000 records for 1256 species (25% of all species) in 121 (67%) and 167 (81%) genera of Saturniidae and Sphingidae, respectively. This dataset is used here to document the level of polyphagy of each of these genera using summary statistics, as well as the calculation of a polyphagy score derived from the analysis of Phylogenetic Diversity of the food plants used by the species in each genus."	"8"	NA	"e60027"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3897/BDJ.8.e60027"	NA	"pubid: eJD0kABLposC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Weed diversity is driven by complex interplay between multi-scale dispersal and local filtering"	"Bourgeois, Bérenger ; Gaba, Sabrina ; Plumejeaud, Christine ; Bretagnolle, Vincent"	"Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences"	NA	NA	"Arable weeds are key organisms for biodiversity maintenance and ecosystem service provision in agroecosystems. Disentangling the drivers of weed diversity is critical to counteract the global decline of farmland biodiversity. Even if distinct scale-dependent processes were alternatively proposed, no general framework unifying the multi-scale drivers of weed dynamics has yet emerged. Here, we investigate the joint effects of field- and landscape-scale processes on weed assemblages in 444 arable fields. First, field margins sheltered greater weed diversity than field core, evidencing their role as biodiversity refugia. Second, community similarity between field core and margin decreased with the distance to margin, highlighting a major role of local dispersal. Third, weed diversity at field margins increased with organic field cover in the landscape, pointing out massive regional dispersal. Fourth, while both local and landscape dispersal explained up to 41% of field core weed diversity, crop type strongly modulated their strength, depicting an intense filtering effect by agricultural management. This study sheds new light on the complex multi-scale interactions shaping weed diversity, field margins playing a key role by strengthening regional dispersal and sustaining local dispersal. Land-sharing strategies improving habitat heterogeneity both locally and regionally should largely promote agroecosystem multifunctionality and sustainability."	"287"	"1930"	"20201118"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1098/rspb.2020.1118"	NA	"pubid: Y0RG-0fxPaAC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Extreme environmental conditions reduce coral reef fish biodiversity and productivity"	"Brandl, Simon J. ; Johansen, Jacob L. ; Casey, Jordan M. ; Tornabene, Luke ; Morais, Renato A. ; Burt, John A."	"Nature Communications"	NA	NA	"Tropical ectotherms are hypothesized to be vulnerable to environmental changes, but cascading effects of organismal tolerances on the assembly and functioning of reef fish communities are largely unknown. Here, we examine differences in organismal traits, assemblage structure, and productivity of cryptobenthic reef fishes between the world's hottest, most extreme coral reefs in the southern Arabian Gulf and the nearby, but more environmentally benign, Gulf of Oman. We show that assemblages in the Arabian Gulf are half as diverse and less than 25% as abundant as in the Gulf of Oman, despite comparable benthic composition and live coral cover. This pattern appears to be driven by energetic deficiencies caused by responses to environmental extremes and distinct prey resource availability rather than absolute thermal tolerances. As a consequence, production, transfer, and replenishment of biomass through cryptobenthic fish assemblages is greatly reduced on Earth's hottest coral reefs. Extreme environmental conditions, as predicted for the end of the 21st century, could thus disrupt the community structure and productivity of a critical functional group, independent of live coral loss."	"11"	NA	"3832"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41467-020-17731-2"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-17731-2"	"pubid: WTQy₈Ay2UsC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Desiccation resistance traits predict freshwater invertebrate survival and community response to drought scenarios in a Neotropical ecosystem"	"Céréghino, Régis ; Françoise, Léa ; Bonhomme, Camille ; Carrias, Jean-François ; Compin, Arthur ; Corbara, Bruno ; Jassey, Vincent ; Leflaive, Joséphine ; Rota, Thibaut ; Farjalla, Vinicius F. ; Leroy, Céline"	"Ecological Indicators"	NA	NA	"The intensification of dry seasons is a major threat to freshwater biodiversity in Neotropical regions. Little is known about resistance to drying stress and the underpinning traits in Neotropical freshwater species, so we don't know whether desiccation resistance allows to anticipate shifts in biological diversity under future climate scenarios. Here, we used the aquatic invertebrates that live in the rainwater-filled leaves of tank bromeliads, to examine the extent to which desiccation resistance of species measured in the laboratory predicts community response to drought intensification in nature. We measured desiccation resistance in 17 invertebrate species (¿90% of the biomass usually found in bromeliads of French Guiana) by recording the median lethal time (LT50) of experimental populations exposed to controlled conditions of residual moisture. In the field, we placed rainshelters above tank bromeliads to emulate drought scenarios ranging from the ambient norm to IPCC scenarios and extreme events, and we recorded the response of functional community structure. LT50 ranged from 4.18 to 19.06 days, and was related to cuticle content and dry body mass. Among other functional indicators that represent strategies to optimize resource use under stressful conditions (e.g., habitat use, trophic specialization), LT50 was the best predictor of community structure responses along a gradient of emulated drought intensities. Therefore, species' LT50s measured under laboratory conditions can be used to forecast aquatic community response to drying stress in nature. Anticipating how species will cope with drought has never been more important for environmental managers to support climate change adaptation. We show that desiccation resistance in freshwater invertebrates is a key indicator of potential population size and local–global range shifts, and this could be especially true in the Neotropics where species have narrow physiological tolerances for climatic variation."	"119"	"August"	"106839"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.ecolind.2020.106839"	"https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolind.2020.106839"	"pubid: MnogvFdIBdwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Long-term warming destabilizes aquatic ecosystems through weakening biodiversity-mediated causal networks"	"Chang, Chun Wei ; Ye, Hao ; Miki, Takeshi ; Deyle, Ethan R. ; Souissi, Sami ; Anneville, Orlane ; Adrian, Rita ; Chiang, Yin-Ru ; Ichise, Satoshi ; Kumagai, Michio ; Matsuzaki, Shinichiro S. ; Shiah, Fuh-Kwo ; Wu, Jiunn-Tzong ; hao Hsieh, Chih ; Sugihara, George"	"Global Change Biology"	NA	NA	"Understanding how ecosystems will respond to climate changes requires unravelling the network of functional responses and feedbacks among biodiversity, physicochemical environments, and productivity. These ecosystem components not only change over time but also interact with each other. Therefore, investigation of individual relationships may give limited insights into their interdependencies and limit ability to predict future ecosystem states. We address this problem by analyzing long-term (16–39 years) time series data from 10 aquatic ecosystems and using convergent cross mapping (CCM) to quantify the causal networks linking phytoplankton species richness, biomass, and physicochemical factors. We determined that individual quantities (e.g., total species richness or nutrients) were not significant predictors of ecosystem stability (quantified as long-term fluctuation of phytoplankton biomass); rather, the integrated causal pathway in the ecosystem network, composed of the interactions among species richness, nutrient cycling, and phytoplankton biomass, was the best predictor of stability. Furthermore, systems that experienced stronger warming over time had both weakened causal interactions and larger fluctuations. Thus, rather than thinking in terms of separate factors, a more holistic network view, that causally links species richness and the other ecosystem components, is required to understand and predict climate impacts on the temporal stability of aquatic ecosystems."	"26"	NA	"6413–6423"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/gcb.15323"	NA	"pubid: w5CyTnyFq80C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"A comprehensive, genus-level time-calibrated phylogeny of the tree flora of Mediterranean Europe and an assessment of its vulnerability"	"Cheikh Albassatneh, Marwan ; Escudero, Marcial ; Ponger, Loic ; Monnet, Anne-Christine ; Arroyo, Juan ; Nikolic, Toni ; Bacchetta, Gianluigi ; Bagnoli, Francesca ; Dimopoulos, Panayotis ; Leriche, Agathe ; Médail, Frédéric ; Roig, Anne ; Spanu, Ilaria ; Vendramin, Giovanni Giuseppe ; Hampe, Arndt ; Fady, Bruno"	"Botany Letters"	NA	NA	"We produced the first time-calibrated phylogeny of all 64 native tree genera occurring on the European side of the Mediterranean Basin. This phylogeny is based on 3 plastid DNA sequences (rbcL matK and trnH-psbA), 4 recognized fossil dates and 10 secondary calibrations. Based on the inferred topology, we then tested whether the investigated tree flora exhibits phylogenetic clustering in both life-history traits known to influence reproduction and species' vulnerability to extinction. Our topology and the estimated dates mostly conform to published partial phylogenies and are highly congruent with the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group classification except for some minor incongruences including the still debated phylogenetic position of Magnoliids. The four strictly endemic genera of the Mediterranean Basin (Chamaerops, Phillyrea, Spartium and Tetraclinis) all showed emergence dates (11–72 Ma) long before the onset of the Mediterranean climate. We did not find any imprints of phylogenetic sorting processes on the life-history traits we studied, except for the mode of seed dispersal, which showed a clustered distribution across our topology. The presence of species at risk of potential extinction within a given genus was randomly distributed along the phylogenetic tree. Species with deficient data were significantly nested within a few of the most recently evolved angiosperm genera. Our analysis closes knowledge gaps and provides a valuable basis for studying the biogeographical and ecological processes that have generated the Mediterranean tree flora. It can also inform conservation planning strategies that aim at broadening traditional taxonomy-focused perspectives with components of evolutionary history and phylogenetic singularity."	"167"	"2"	"276–289"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1080/23818107.2019.1684360"	"https://doi.org/10.1080/23818107.2019.1684360"	"pubid: M8meJADSprsC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Access and allocation in global biodiversity governance: A review"	"Coolsaet, Brendan ; Dawson, Neil ; Rabitz, Florian ; Lovera, Simone"	"International Environmental Agreements: Politics, Law and Economics"	NA	NA	NA	"20"	NA	"359–375"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1007/s10784-020-09476-6"	"10.1007/s10784-020-09476-6"	"pubid: lPDSu1ZU3VAC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Cradles and museums of generic plant diversity across tropical Africa"	"Dagallier, L. M. ; Janssens, Steven B. ; Dauby, Gilles ; Blach-Overgaard, Anne ; MacKinder, Barbara A. ; Droissart, Vincent ; Svenning, Jens-Christian ; Sosef, Marc S. M. ; Stévart, Tariq ; Harris, David J. ; Sonké, Bonaventure ; Wieringa, Jan J. ; Hardy, Oliver J. ; Couvreur, Thomas L. P."	"New Phytologist"	NA	NA	NA	"225"	"5"	"2196–2213"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/nph.16293"	NA	"pubid: AubyX3KqGToC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"FAIRness literacy: The achilles' heel of applying FAIR principles"	"David, Romain ; Mabile, Laurence ; Specht, Alison ; Stryeck, Sarah ; Thomsen, Mogens ; Yahia, Mohamed ; Jonquet, Clement ; Dollé, Laurent ; Jacob, Daniel ; Bailo, Daniele ; Bravo, Elena ; Gachet, Sophie ; Gunderman, Hannah ; Hollebecq, Jean-Eudes ; Ioannidis, Vassilios ; Le Bras, Yvan ; Lerigoleur, Emilie ; Cambon-Thomsen, Anne"	"Data Science Journal"	NA	NA	"The SHARC Interest Group of the Research Data Alliance was established to improve research crediting and rewarding mechanisms for scientists who wish to organise their data (and material resources) for community sharing. This requires that data are findable and accessible on the Web, and comply with shared standards making them interoperable and reusable in alignment with the FAIR principles. It takes considerable time, energy, expertise and motivation. It is imperative to facilitate the processes to encourage scientists to share their data. To that aim, supporting FAIR principles compliance processes and increasing the human understanding of FAIRness criteria-i.e., promoting FAIRness literacy-and not only the machine-readability of the criteria, are critical steps in the data sharing process. Appropriate human-understandable criteria must be the first identified in the FAIRness assessment processes and roadmap. This paper reports on the lessons learned from the RDA SHARC Interest Group on identifying the processes required to prepare FAIR implementation in various communities not specifically data skilled, and on the procedures and training that must be deployed and adapted to each practice and level of understanding. These are essential milestones in developing adapted support and credit back mechanisms not yet in place."	"19"	NA	"32"	NA	NA	NA	"10.5334/dsj-2020-032"	NA	"pubid: w-fwKiQwpQAC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Generalist plants are more competitive and more functionally similar to each other than specialist plants: insights from network analyses"	"Denelle, Pierre ; Violle, Cyrille ; Munoz, François"	"Journal of Biogeography"	NA	NA	"Aim: Ecological specialization is defined by the variety of environments species occupy. Identifying the mechanisms that influence specialization is critical to understand patterns of species coexistence and biodiversity. However, the functional attributes that result in specialization are still unknown. Similarly, there is contrasting evidence between the degree of specialization and the local abundance of species. We investigated whether specialist and generalist plant species (a) are associated with distinct functional profiles, using core plant functional traits and strategies, (b) show similar functional variation and (c) perform at the local scale. Location: France. Taxon: Herbaceous plants. Methods: We analysed the structure of a bipartite network that includes the occurrences of ∼2,900 plant species at ∼90,000 sites to identify ecologically consistent sets of species and sites (i.e. ‘modules'). This innovative approach then enabled us to define a metric of specialization, by quantifying occurrences of species at sites that belong to one or several modules. We used functional traits related to resource acquisition, competition for light and dispersal ability, as well as indices of competitive, stress tolerance and ruderal strategies. Results: We identified five major modules in the bipartite network related to different environments and composed of species with differing functional attributes. Specialist species were less competitive and shorter, and had higher stress tolerance and stronger resource conservation, while generalist species were taller. Generalists were also more similar to each other than specialists. In addition, specialists had higher local abundances and occurred in communities with plants of similar height. Main conclusions: We found distinctive functional signatures of specialist and generalist species in grassland communities across diverse environments at regional and community scales. By testing classic macro-ecological hypotheses, network metrics can benefit community ecology by identifying distinct ecological units at a large scale and quantifying the links developed by species."	"47"	"9"	"1922–1933"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/jbi.13848"	NA	"pubid: RmcNAhKkducC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Weeds enhance multifunctionality in arable lands in South-West of France"	"Gaba, Sabrina ; Cheviron, Nathalie ; Perrot, Thomas ; Piutti, Séverine ; Gautier, Jean-Luc ; Bretagnolle, Vincent"	"Frontiers in Sustainable Food Systems"	NA	NA	"The current challenge in agriculture is to move from intensively managed to multifunctional agricultural landscapes that can simultaneously provide multiple ecological functions (multifunctionality), thus ensuring the delivery of ecosystem services important for human well-being. There is evidence that biodiversity is the main driver of multiple ecosystem functions. However, how biodiversity, and which components of biodiversity are the sources of multifunctionality, remain elusive. In the present study, we explore the role of weed richness and weed abundance as possible sources of ecosystem multifunctionality of an intensive agricultural landscape. Weeds are a key component of the arable field ecosystem trophic network by supporting various ecological functions while being a possible threat for production. We combine empirical data on ten ecosystem functions related to pollination, pest control and soil fertility, and measured across 184 fields cultivated with winter cereal, oilseed rape or hays in the Long Term Socio-Ecological Research site Zone Atelier Plaine & Val de Sèvre. We found that weed diversity was a strong contributor to multifunctionality in all crop types, especially when using the threshold-based approach. The effects of weed diversity were less pronounced for individual ecological functions except for weed seed predation and urease activity. As weeds may have dual effects on yields, we also explored the relationship between ecosystem multifunctionality and yield considering weed abundance. We however found a neutral relationship between yield and ecosystem multifunctionality. These results suggest that field management that maintains high levels of weed diversity can enhance multifunctionality and most ecological functions. Understanding how to maintain weed diversity in agricultural landscapes can therefore help to design sustainable management favoring the delivery of multiple services while maintaining food production. The next challenge will therefore be to assess the relative contribution of management practices, landscape features and weed diversity on ecosystem multifunctionality and yield."	"4"	"May"	"71"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3389/fsufs.2020.00071"	NA	"pubid: QeguYG95ZbAC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Is prediction of species richness from stacked species distribution models biased by habitat saturation?"	"Grenié, Matthias ; Violle, Cyrille ; Munoz, François"	"Ecological Indicators"	NA	NA	"Several studies have proposed to predict Species Richness (SR) by combining the predictions of independent Species Distributions Models (SDMs) (the predict first-assemble later strategy). Alternative methods propose to combine outputs from SDMs differently, by either summing predicted presence probabilities at each location, or summing binary presence predictions after thresholding the probabilities. Species can occupy various proportions of their suitable habitats (i.e, have various levels of habitat saturation), which can cause discrepancy when predicting their presences through SDMs. Furthermore, these discrepancies can be increased when combining the predictions of individual SDMs to predict SR. In this article, we performed simulations of species distributions with varying habitat saturation (i.e., the amount of suitable habitat occupied by a species), and we compared observed richness with that predicted by the alternative approaches. We found that probability-based richness is not biased by the level of habitat saturation, while threshold-based richness over-predicts richness at low habitat saturation and under-predicts it as high habitat saturation. Probability-based richness should thus be used in priority when predicting species richness locally. Nonetheless, threshold-based richness represents species richness constrained by environmental filtering only and thus is a useful indicator of potential species richness when species fully saturate their habitats. Thus the systematic comparison of probability-based and threshold-based richness predictions can reveal the importance of habitat saturation and can thus help identify community assembly mechanisms at play."	"111"	NA	"105970"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.ecolind.2019.105970"	"https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolind.2019.105970"	"pubid: TjUWtciUekC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Phylogenomic approaches reveal how climate shapes patterns of genetic diversity in an African rain forest tree species"	"Helmstetter, Andrew J. ; Amoussou, Biowa E. N. ; Bethune, Kevin ; Kamdem, Narcisse G. ; Glèlè Kakaï, Romain ; Sonké, Bonaventure ; Couvreur, Thomas L. P."	"Molecular Ecology"	NA	NA	"The world's second largest expanse of tropical rainforest is in Central Africa, and it harbours enormous species diversity. Population genetic studies have consistently revealed significant structure across Central African rainforest plants. In particular, previous studies have repeatedly demonstrated a north–south genetic discontinuity around the equatorial line, in a continuous expanse of rainforest where a climatic inversion is documented. Here, we took a phylogeographic approach by sequencing 351 nuclear markers in 112 individuals across the distribution of the African rainforest tree species Annickia affinis (Annonaceae). We showed for the first time that the north–south divide is the result of a single, major colonization event across the climatic inversion from an ancestral population located in Gabon. We suggested that differences in ecological niche of populations located on either side of this inversion may have contributed to this phylogenetic discontinuity. We found evidence for inland dispersal, predominantly in northern areas, and variable demographic histories among genetic clusters, indicating that populations responded differently to past climate change. We show how newly developed genomic tools can provide invaluable insights into our understanding of tropical rainforest evolutionary dynamics."	"29"	"18"	"3560–3573"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/mec.15572"	NA	"pubid: QYmifXMdJWgC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Individualistic evolutionary responses of Central African rain forest plants to Pleistocene climatic fluctuations"	"Helmstetter, Andrew J. ; Béthune, Kevin ; Kamdem, Narcisse G. ; Sonké, Bonaventure ; Couvreur, Thomas L.P."	"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America"	NA	NA	"Understanding the evolutionary dynamics of genetic diversity is fundamental for species conservation in the face of climate change, particularly in hyper-diverse biomes. Species in a region may respond similarly to climate change, leading to comparable evolutionary dynamics, or individualistically, resulting in dissimilar patterns. The second-largest expanse of continuous tropical rain forest (TRF) in the world is found in Central Africa. Here, present-day patterns of genetic structure are thought to be dictated by repeated expansion and contraction of TRFs into and out of refugia during Pleistocene climatic fluctuations. This refugia model implies a common response to past climate change. However, given the unrivalled diversity of TRFs, species could respond differently because of distinct environmental requirements or ecological characteristics. To test this, we generated genome-wide sequence data for ¿700 individuals of seven codistributed plants from Lower Guinea in Central Africa. We inferred species' evolutionary and demographic histories within a comparative phylogeographic framework. Levels of genetic structure varied among species and emerged primarily during the Pleistocene, but divergence events were rarely concordant. Demographic trends ranged from repeated contraction and expansion to continuous growth. Furthermore, patterns in genetic variation were linked to disparate environmental factors, including climate, soil, and habitat stability. Using a strict refugia model to explain past TRF dynamics is too simplistic. Instead, individualistic evolutionary responses to Pleistocene climatic fluctuations have shaped patterns in genetic diversity. Predicting the future dynamics of TRFs under climate change will be challenging, and more emphasis is needed on species ecology to better conserve TRFs worldwide."	"117"	"51"	"32509–32518"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1073/pnas.2001018117"	NA	"pubid: CKf5m1HYVjMC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Unraveling the phylogenomic relationships of the most diverse African palm genus Raphia (Calamoideae, Arecaceae)"	"Helmstetter, Andrew J. ; Kamga, Suzanne Mogue ; Bethune, Kevin ; Lautenschläger, Thea ; Zizka, Alexander ; Bacon, Christine D. ; Wieringa, Jan J. ; Stauffer, Fred ; Antonelli, Alexandre ; Sonké, Bonaventure ; Couvreur, Thomas L. P."	"Plants"	NA	NA	"Palms are conspicuous floristic elements across the tropics. In continental Africa, even though there are less than 70 documented species, they are omnipresent across the tropical landscape. The genus Raphia has 20 accepted species in Africa and one species endemic to the Neotropics. It is the most economically important genus of African palms with most of its species producing food and construction material. Raphia is divided into five sections based on inflorescence morphology. Nevertheless, the taxonomy of Raphia is problematic with no intra-generic phylogenetic study available. We present a phylogenetic study of the genus using a targeted exon capture approach sequencing of 56 individuals representing 18 out of the 21 species. Our results recovered five well supported clades within the genus. Three sections correspond to those based on inflorescence morphology. R. regalis is strongly supported as sister to all other Raphia species and is placed into a newly described section: Erectae. Overall, morphological based identifications agreed well with our phylogenetic analyses, with 12 species recovered as monophyletic based on our sampling. Species delimitation analyses recovered 17 or 23 species depending on the confidence level used. Species delimitation is especially problematic in the Raphiate and Temulentae sections. In addition, our clustering analysis using SNP data suggested that individual clusters matched geographic distribution. The Neotropical species R. taedigera is supported as a distinct species, rejecting the hypothesis of a recent introduction into South America. Our analyses support the hypothesis that the Raphia individuals from Madagascar are potentially a distinct species different from the widely distributed R. farinifera. In conclusion, our results support the infra generic classification of Raphia based on inflorescence morphology, which is shown to be phylogenetically useful. Classification and species delimitation within sections remains problematic even with our phylogenomic approach. Certain widely distributed species could potentially contain cryptic species. More in-depth studies should be undertaken using morphometrics, increased sampling, and more variable markers. Our study provides a robust phylogenomic framework that enables further investigation on the biogeographic history, morphological evolution, and other eco-evolutionary aspects of this charismatic, socially, and economically important palm genus."	"9"	"4"	"549"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3390/plants9040549"	NA	"pubid: fGk8ZXjgAbkC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Trait evolution and historical biogeography shape assemblages of annual killifish"	"Helmstetter, Andrew J. ; Papadopulos, Alexander S. T. ; Igea, Javier ; Van Dooren, Tom J. M."	"Journal of Biogeography"	NA	NA	"Aim: Different species assemblages of annual killifish possess replicated body size distributions yet have unique sets of species in each area of endemism. Here, we use models of trait evolution and historical biogeography to discover how size variation originated and has been restructured. Location: South America. Taxon: Austrolebias (Cyprinodontiformes). Methods: We sampled 63 individuals from 26 Austrolebias species. Using phylogenetic trees (BEAST2), data on environmental variables at sampling locations and size data, we compare different models for trait evolution (SURFACE, l1OU) of body size and niche traits. We model the historical biogeography of the areas of endemism (BioGeoBEARS) and use both analyses in combination to reconstruct the history of four species assemblages. Results: We present new phylogenetic trees for Austrolebias and use them to show that large size principally arose within a single area driven by a shifted selection optimum for a subset of the species in that area. We suggest that ecological interactions triggered size divergence and that this large-bodied lineage subsequently spread to two other areas. A second assemblage may have been shaped by adaptation to a new environment without an associated increase in size divergence. A third assemblage, which has the smallest size range and the most recent origin, is phylogenetically clustered, and we found no evidence of environmental filtering. Main conclusions: Assemblage similarity in Austrolebias is the result of contrasting ecological, evolutionary and historical processes. Modelling trait evolution together with historical biogeography can help to disentangle the complex histories of multispecies assemblages. This approach provides context to commonly used tests investigating the role of ecological processes from phylogenetic data and generates new testable hypotheses on the processes that generated trait diversity and assemblage similarity."	"47"	"9"	"1955–1965"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/jbi.13912"	NA	"pubid: XUAslYVNQLQC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Tracking of marine predators to protect Southern Ocean ecosystems"	"Hindell, Mark A. ; Reisinger, Ryan R. ; Ropert-Coudert, Yan ; Hückstädt, Luis A. ; Trathan, Philip N. ; Bornemann, Horst ; Charrassin, Jean-Benoît ; Chown, Steven L. ; Costa, Daniel P. ; Danis, Bruno ; Lea, Mary-Anne ; Thompson, David ; Torres, Leigh G. ; Van de Putte, Anton P. ; Alderman, Rachael ; Andrews-Goff, Virginia ; Arthur, Ben ; Ballard, Grant ; Bengtson, John ; Bester, Marthán N. ; Blix, Arnoldus Schytte ; Boehme, Lars ; Bost, Charles-André ; Boveng, Peter ; Cleeland, Jaimie ; Constantine, Rochelle ; Corney, Stuart ; Crawford, Robert J. M. ; Dalla Rosa, Luciano ; de Bruyn, P. J. Nico ; Delord, Karine ; Descamps, Sébastien ; Double, Mike ; Emmerson, Louise ; Fedak, Mike ; Friedlaender, Ari ; Gales, Nick ; Goebel, Michael E. ; Goetz, Kimberly T. ; Guinet, Christophe ; Goldsworthy, Simon D. ; Harcourt, Rob ; Hinke, Jefferson T. ; Jerosch, Kerstin ; Kato, Akiko ; Kerry, Knowles R. ; Kirkwood, Roger ; Kooyman, Gerald L. ; Kovacs, Kit M. ; Lawton, Kieran ; Lowther, Andrew D. ; Lydersen, Christian ; Lyver, Phil O'B. ; Makhado, Azwianewi B. ; Márquez, Maria E. I. ; McDonald, Birgitte I. ; McMahon, Clive R. ; Muelbert, Monica ; Nachtsheim, Dominik ; Nicholls, Keith W. ; Nordoy, Erling S. ; Olmastroni, Silvia ; Phillips, Richard A. ; Pistorius, Pierre A. ; Plötz, Joachim ; Pütz, Klemens ; Ratcliffe, Norman ; Ryan, Peter G. ; Santos, Mercedes ; Southwell, Colin ; Staniland, Iain J. ; Takahashi, Akinori ; Tarroux, Arnaud ; Trivelpiece, Wayne ; Wakefield, Ewan ; Weimerskirch, Henri ; Wienecke, Barbara ; Xavier, José C. ; Wotherspoon, Simon ; Jonsen, Ian D. ; Raymond, Ben"	"Nature"	NA	NA	NA	"580"	NA	"87–92"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41586-020-2126-y"	NA	"pubid: oEQS-WwsdAC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Analyzing snapshot diversity patterns with the Neutral Theory can show functional groups' effects on community assembly"	"Laroche, Fabien ; Violle, Cyrille ; Taudière, Adrien ; Munoz, François"	"Ecology"	NA	NA	"A central question of community ecology is to understand how the interplay between processes of the Neutral Theory (e.g., immigration and ecological drift) and niche-based processes (e.g., environmental filtering, intra- and interspecific density dependence) shape species diversity in competitive communities. The articulation between these two categories of mechanisms can be studied through the lens of the intermediate organizational level of “functional groups” (FGs), defined as clusters of species with similar traits. Indeed, FGs stress ecological differences among species and are thus likely to unravel non-neutral interactions within communities. Here we presented a novel approach to explore how FGs affect species coexistence by comparing species and functional diversity patterns. Our framework considers the Neutral Theory as a mechanistic null hypothesis. It assesses how much the functional diversity deviates from species diversity in communities, and compares this deviation, called the “average functional deviation,” to a neutral baseline. We showed that the average functional deviation can indicate reduced negative density dependence or environmental filtering among FGs. We validated our framework using simulations illustrating the two situations. We further analyzed tropical tree communities in Western Ghats, India. Our analysis of the average functional deviation revealed environmental filtering between deciduous and evergreen FGs along a broad rainfall gradient. By contrast, we did not find clear evidence for reduced density dependence among FGs. We predict that applying our approach to new case studies where environmental gradients are milder and FGs are more clearly associated to resource partitioning should reveal the missing pattern of reduced density dependence among FGs."	"101"	"4"	"e02977"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1002/ecy.2977"	NA	"pubid: NKlx0PmyA3cC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Global distribution and conservation status of ecologically rare mammal and bird species"	"Loiseau, Nicolas ; Mouquet, Nicolas ; Casajus, Nicolas ; Grenié, Matthias ; Guéguen, Maya ; Maitner, Brian ; Mouillot, David ; Ostling, Annette ; Renaud, Julien ; Tucker, Caroline ; Velez, Laure ; Thuiller, Wilfried ; Violle, Cyrille"	"Nature Communications"	NA	NA	"Identifying species that are both geographically restricted and functionally distinct, i.e. supporting rare traits and functions, is of prime importance given their risk of extinction and their potential contribution to ecosystem functioning. We use global species distributions and functional traits for birds and mammals to identify the ecologically rare species, understand their characteristics, and identify hotspots. We find that ecologically rare species are disproportionately represented in IUCN threatened categories, insufficiently covered by protected areas, and for some of them sensitive to current and future threats. While they are more abundant overall in countries with a low human development index, some countries with high human development index are also hotspots of ecological rarity, suggesting transboundary responsibility for their conservation. Altogether, these results state that more conservation emphasis should be given to ecological rarity given future environmental conditions and the need to sustain multiple ecosystem processes in the long-term."	"11"	NA	"5071"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41467-020-18779-w"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-18779-w"	"pubid: 5p9vMBpPSXYC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Weeds: Against the rules?"	"Mahaut, Lucie ; Cheptou, Pierre-Olivier ; Fried, Guillaume ; Munoz, François ; Storkey, Jonathan ; Vasseur, François ; Violle, Cyrille ; Bretagnolle, Vincent"	"Trends in Plant Science"	NA	NA	"Establishing laws of plant and ecosystems functioning has been an overarching objective of functional and evolutionary ecology. However, most theories neglect the role of human activities in creating novel ecosystems characterized by species assemblages and environmental factors that are not observed in natural systems. We argue that agricultural weeds, as an emblematic case of such an ?ecological novelty?, constitute an original and underutilized model for challenging current concepts in ecology and evolution. We highlight key aspects of weed ecology and evolutionary biology that can help to test and recast ecological and evolutionary laws in a changing world. We invite ecologists to seize upon weeds as a model system to improve our understanding of the short-term and long-term dynamics of ecological systems in the Anthropocene. AB - Establishing laws of plant and ecosystems functioning has been an overarching objective of functional and evolutionary ecology. However, most theories neglect the role of human activities in creating novel ecosystems characterized by species assemblages and environmental factors that are not observed in natural systems. We argue that agricultural weeds, as an emblematic case of such an ?ecological novelty?, constitute an original and underutilized model for challenging current concepts in ecology and evolution. We highlight key aspects of weed ecology and evolutionary biology that can help to test and recast ecological and evolutionary laws in a changing world. We invite ecologists to seize upon weeds as a model system to improve our understanding of the short-term and long-term dynamics of ecological systems in the Anthropocene."	"25"	"11"	"1107–1116"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.tplants.2020.05.013"	NA	"pubid: 5bfplxN71z4C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Multiple facets of diversity effects on plant productivity: Species richness, functional diversity, species identity and intraspecific competition"	"Mahaut, Lucie ; Fort, Florian ; Violle, Cyrille ; Freschet, Grégoire T."	"Functional Ecology"	NA	NA	"Deciphering the mechanisms that drive variation in biomass production across plant communities of contrasting species composition and diversity is a main challenge of biodiversity–ecosystem functioning research. Niche complementarity and selection effect have been widely investigated to address biodiversity–productivity relationships. However, the overlooking of the specific role played by key species has limited so far our capacity to comprehensively assess the relative importance of other potential drivers of biodiversity effects. Here, we conducted a grassland diversity–productivity experiment to test how four potential facets of biodiversity effects, namely species richness, functional diversity, species identity and the relaxation of intraspecific competition, account for variations in above and root biomass production. We grew six plant species in monoculture, as well as in every combination of two, three and six species. Plant density was kept constant across the richness gradient but we additionally grew each species in half-density monoculture to estimate the strength of intraspecific competition for each studied species. We characterized eight functional traits, including root traits, related to nutrient and light acquisition and computed both the functional dissimilarity and the community-weighted mean (CWM) of each trait. We further partitioned above-ground biodiversity effect into complementarity and selection effects. We observed strong positive biodiversity effects on both above-ground and root biomass as well as strong positive complementarity effect. These arose largely from the presence of a particular species (Plantago lanceolata) and from CWM trait values more than from a higher functional dissimilarity in plant mixtures. P. lanceolata displayed the highest intraspecific competition, which was strongly relaxed in species mixtures. By contrast, the presence of Sanguisorba minor negatively affected the productivity of plant mixtures, this species suffering more from interspecific than intraspecific competition. This study provides strong evidences that the search for key species is critical to understand the role of species diversity on ecosystem functioning and demonstrates the major role that the balance between intraspecific and interspecific competition plays in biodiversity–ecosystem functioning relationships. Developing more integrative approaches in community and ecosystem ecology can offer opportunities to better understand the role that species diversity plays on ecosystem functioning. A free Plain Language Summary can be found within the Supporting Information of this article."	"34"	"1"	"287–298"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/1365-2435.13473"	NA	"pubid: t9Ks5LMjN0QC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Species niches, not traits, determine abundance and occupancy patterns: A multi-site synthesis"	"Marino, Nicholas A. C. ; Céréghino, Régis ; Gilbert, Benjamin ; Petermann, Jana ; Srivastava, Diane S. ; de Omena, Paula M. ; Ospina Bautista, Fabiola ; Farjalla, Vinicius F. ; Guzman, Laura M. ; Romero, Gustavo Q. ; Trzcinski, M. Kurtis ; Barberis, Ignacio M. ; Corbara, Bruno ; Debastiani, Vanderlei J. ; Dézerald, Olivier ; Kratina, K. ; Leroy, Céline ; MacDonald, A. Andrew M. ; Montero, Guillermo ; Pillar, Valério D. ; Richardson, Barbara A. ; Richardson, Michael J. ; Talaga, Stanislas ; Gonçalves, Ana Z. ; Piccoli, Gustavo C. O. ; Jocqué, Merlijn"	"Global Ecology and Biogeography"	NA	NA	NA	"29"	"2"	"295–308"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/geb.13029"	NA	"pubid: 8JTMrWI6FdcC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Ecological specialization and rarity of arable weeds: Insights from a comprehensible survey in France"	"Munoz, François ; Fried, Guillaume ; Armengot, Laura ; Bourgeois, Bérenger ; Bretagnolle, Vincent ; Chadoeuf, Joel ; Mahaut, Lucie ; Plumejeaud, Christine ; Storkey, Jonathan ; Violle, Cyrille ; Gaba, Sabrina"	"Plants"	NA	NA	"The definition of “arable weeds” remains contentious. Although much attention has been devoted to specialized, segetal weeds, many taxa found in arable fields also commonly occur in other habitats. The extent to which adjacent habitats are favorable to the weed flora and act as potential sources of colonizers in arable fields remains unclear. In addition, weeds form assemblages with large spatiotemporal variability, so that many taxa in weed flora are rarely observed in plot-based surveys. We thus addressed the following questions: How often do weeds occur in other habitats than arable fields? How does including field edges extend the taxonomic and ecological diversity of weeds? How does the weed flora vary across surveys at different spatial and temporal scales? We built a comprehensive dataset of weed taxa in France by compiling weed flora, lists of specialized segetal weeds, and plot-based surveys in agricultural fields, with different spatial and temporal coverages. We informed life forms, biogeographical origins and conservation status of these weeds. We also defined a broader dataset of plants occupying open habitats in France and assessed habitat specialization of weeds and of other plant species absent from arable fields. Our results show that many arable weeds are frequently recorded in both arable fields and non-cultivated open habitats and are, on average, more generalist than species absent from arable fields. Surveys encompassing field edges included species also occurring in mesic grasslands and nitrophilous fringes, suggesting spill-over from surrounding habitats. A total of 71.5% of the French weed flora was not captured in plot-based surveys at regional and national scales, and many rare and declining taxa were of Mediterranean origin. This result underlines the importance of implementing conservation measures for specialist plant species that are particularly reliant on arable fields as a habitat, while also pointing out biotic homogenization of agricultural landscapes as a factor in the declining plant diversity of farmed landscapes. Our dataset provides a reference species pool for France, with associated ecological and biogeographical information."	"9"	"7"	"824"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3390/plants9070824"	"https://www.mdpi.com/2223-7747/9/7/824"	"pubid: jtOrAYjvdewC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Delineating reef fish trophic guilds with global gut content data synthesis and phylogeny"	"Parravicini, Valeriano ; Casey, Jordan M. ; Schiettekatte, Nina M. D. ; Brandl, Simon J. ; Pozas-Schacre, Chloe ; Carlot, Jérémy ; Edgar, Graham J. ; Graham, Nicholas A. J. ; Harmelin-Vivien, Mireille ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Strona, Giovanni ; Stuart-Smith, Rick D."	"PLoS Biology"	NA	NA	"Understanding species' roles in food webs requires an accurate assessment of their trophic niche. However, it is challenging to delineate potential trophic interactions across an ecosys- tem, and a paucity of empirical information often leads to inconsistent definitions of trophic guilds based on expert opinion, especially when applied to hyperdiverse ecosystems. Using coral reef fishes as a model group, we show that experts disagree on the assignment of broad trophic guilds for more than 20% of species, which hampers comparability across studies. Here, we propose a quantitative, unbiased, and reproducible approach to define tro- phic guilds and apply recent advances in machine learning to predict probabilities of pair- wise trophic interactions with high accuracy. We synthesize data from community-wide gut content analyses of tropical coral reef fishes worldwide, resulting in diet information from 13,961 individuals belonging to 615 reef fish. We then use network analysis to identify 8 tro- phic guilds and Bayesian phylogenetic modeling to show that trophic guilds can be predicted based on phylogeny and maximum body size. Finally, we use machine learning to test whether pairwise trophic interactions can be predicted with accuracy. Our models achieved a misclassification error of less than 5%, indicating that our approach results in a quantitative and reproducible trophic categorization scheme, as well as high-resolution probabilities of trophic interactions. By applying our framework to the most diverse vertebrate consumer group, we show that it can be applied to other organismal groups to advance reproducibility in trait-based ecology. Our work thus provides a viable approach to account for the complex- ity of predator–prey interactions in highly diverse ecosystems."	"18"	"12"	"e3000702"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1371/journal.pbio.3000702"	NA	"pubid: w9ZB08sdvuUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Effects of Natura 2000 on nontarget bird and butterfly species based on citizen science data"	"Pellissier, Vincent ; Schmucki, Reto ; Pe'er, Guy ; Aunins, A. ; Brereton, Tom M. ; Brotons, L. ; Carnicer, Jofre ; Chodkiewicz, T. ; Chylarecki, P. ; del Moral, J. C. ; Escandell, V. ; Evans, D. ; Foppen, R. ; Harpke, Alexander ; Heliölä, Janne ; Herrando, S. ; Kuussaari, Mikko ; Kühn, Elisabeth ; Lehikoinen, A. ; Lindström, A. ; Moshoj, C. M. ; Musche, Martin ; Noble, D. ; Oliver, Tom H. ; Reif, J. ; Richard, D. ; Roy, David B. ; Schweiger, Oliver ; Settele, Josef ; Stefanescu, Constantí ; Teufelbauer, N. ; Touroult, J. ; Trautmann, S. ; van Strien, Arco J. ; Swaay, C. A. M. ; Turnhout, C. ; Vermouzek, Z. ; Vorísek, P. ; Jiguet, Fréféric ; Julliard, Romain"	"Conservation Biology"	NA	NA	NA	"34"	"3"	"666–676"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/cobi.13434"	NA	"pubid: vkuYBMKU6wEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"The retrospective analysis of Antarctic tracking data project"	"Ropert-Coudert, Yan ; Van de Putte, Anton P. ; Reisinger, Ryan R. ; Bornemann, Horst ; Charrassin, Jean-Benoît ; Costa, Daniel P. ; Danis, Bruno ; Hückstädt, Luis A. ; Jonsen, Ian D. ; Lea, Mary-Anne ; Thompson, David ; Torres, Leigh G. ; Trathan, Philip N. ; Wotherspoon, Simon ; Ainley, David G. ; Alderman, Rachael ; Andrews-Goff, Virginia ; Arthur, Ben ; Ballard, Grant ; Bengtson, John ; Bester, Marthán N. ; Blix, Arnoldus Schytte ; Boehme, Lars ; Bost, Charles-André ; Boveng, Peter ; Cleeland, Jaimie ; Constantine, Rochelle ; Crawford, Robert J. M. ; Dalla Rosa, Luciano ; de Bruyn, P. J. Nico ; Delord, Karine ; Descamps, Sébastien ; Double, Mike ; Emmerson, Louise ; Fedak, Mike ; Friedlaender, Ari ; Gales, Nick ; Goebel, Michael E. ; Goetz, Kimberly T. ; Guinet, Christophe ; Goldsworthy, Simon D. ; Harcourt, Rob ; Hinke, Jefferson T. ; Jerosch, Kerstin ; Kato, Akiko ; Kerry, Knowles R. ; Kirkwood, Roger ; Kooyman, Gerald L. ; Kovacs, Kit M. ; Lawton, Kieran ; Lowther, Andrew D. ; Lydersen, Christian ; Lyver, Phil O'B. ; Makhado, Azwianewi B. ; Márquez, Maria E. I. ; McDonald, Birgitte I. ; McMahon, Clive R. ; Muelbert, Monica ; Nachtsheim, Dominik ; Nicholls, Keith W. ; Nordoy, Erling S. ; Olmastroni, Silvia ; Phillips, Richard A. ; Pistorius, Pierre A. ; Plötz, Joachim ; Pütz, Klemens ; Ratcliffe, Norman ; Ryan, Peter G. ; Santos, Mercedes ; Southwell, Colin ; Staniland, Iain J. ; Takahashi, Akinori ; Tarroux, Arnaud ; Trivelpiece, Wayne ; Wakefield, Ewan ; Weimerskirch, Henri ; Wienecke, Barbara ; Xavier, José C. ; Raymond, Ben ; Hindell, Mark A."	"Scientific Data"	NA	NA	NA	"7"	NA	"94"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41597-020-0406-x"	NA	"pubid: WgvcDLhf7hwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"report"	"2020"	"Critical research infrastructure: The importance of synthesis centers. Elephant in the Lab"	"Specht, Alison ; Corrêa, Pedro ; Belbin, Lee ; Loescher, Henry W."	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	"pubid: -BKJ5vZJwzMC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Storm impacts on phytoplankton community dynamics in lakes"	"Stockwell, Jason D. ; Doubek, Jonathan P. ; Adrian, Rita ; Anneville, Orlane ; Carey, Cayelan C. ; Carvalho, Laurence ; De Senerpont Domis, Lisette N. ; Dur, Gaël ; Frassl, Marieke A. ; Grossart, Hans‐Peter ; Ibelings, Bas W. ; Lajeunesse, Marc J. ; Lewandowska, Aleksandra M. ; Llames, María E. ; Matsuzaki, Shin‐Ichiro S. ; Nodine, Emily R. ; Noges, Peeter ; Patil, Vijay P. ; Pomati, Francesco ; Rinke, Karsten ; Rudstam, Lars G. ; Rusak, James A. ; Salmaso, Nico ; Seltmann, Christian T. ; Straile, Dietmar ; Thackeray, Stephen J. ; Thiery, Wim ; Urrutia‐Cordero, Pablo ; Venail, Patrick ; Verburg, Piet ; Woolway, R. Iestyn ; Zohary, Tamar ; Andersen, Mikkel R. ; Bhattacharya, Ruchi ; Hejzlar, Josef ; Janatian, Nasime ; Kpodonu, Alfred T. N. K. ; Williamson, Tanner J. ; Wilson, Harriet L."	"Global Change Biology"	NA	NA	NA	"26"	"5"	"2756–2784"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/gcb.15033"	NA	"pubid: LlXTzFrCmAC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"Productivity begets less phylogenetic diversity but higher uniqueness than expected"	"Thuiller, Wilfried ; Gravel, Dominique ; Ficetola, Gentile Francesco ; Lavergne, Sébastien ; Münkemüller, Tamara ; Pollock, Laura J. ; Zimmermann, Niklaus E ; Mazel, Florent"	"Journal of Biogeography"	NA	NA	NA	"47"	"1"	"44–58"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/jbi.13630"	"https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/jbi.13630"	"pubid: JdL-Xu2nR38C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2020"	"A closer examination of the 'abundant center' hypothesis for reef fishes"	"Yancovitch Shalom, Hagar ; Granot, Itai ; Blowes, Shane A. ; Friedlander, Alan M. ; Mellin, Camille ; Leite Ferreira, Carlos Eduardo ; Arias-González, Jesus Ernesto ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Floeter, Sergio R. ; Chabanet, Pascale ; Parravicini, Valeriano ; Belmaker, Jonathan"	"Journal of Biogeography"	NA	NA	NA	"47"	NA	"2194–2209"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/jbi.13920"	NA	"pubid: nj26e0utjpAC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Advancing social equity in and through marine conservation"	"Bennett, Nathan J. ; Katz, Laure ; Yadao-Evans, Whitney ; Ahmadia, Gabby N. ; Atkinson, Scott ; Ban, Natalie C. ; Dawson, Neil M. ; de Vos, Asha ; Fitzpatrick, Juno ; Gill, David ; Imirizaldu, Mael ; Lewis, Naia ; Mangubhai, Sangeeta ; Meth, Leah ; Muhl, Ella-Kari ; Obura, David ; Spalding, Ana K. ; Villagomez, Angelo ; Wagner, Daniel ; White, Alan ; Wilhelm, Aulani"	"Frontiers in Marine Science"	NA	NA	"Substantial efforts and investments are being made to increase the scale and improve the effectiveness of marine conservation globally. Though it is mandated by international law and central to conservation policy, less attention has been given to how to operationalize social equity in and through the pursuit of marine conservation. In this article, we aim to bring greater attention to this topic through reviewing how social equity can be better integrated in marine conservation policy and practice. Advancing social equity in marine conservation requires directing attention to: recognition through acknowledgment and respect for diverse peoples and perspectives; fair distribution of impacts through maximizing benefits and minimizing burdens; procedures through fostering participation in decision-making and good governance; management through championing and supporting local involvement and leadership; the environment through ensuring the efficacy of conservation actions and adequacy of management to ensure benefits to nature and people; and the structural barriers to and institutional roots of inequity in conservation. We then discuss the role of various conservation organizations in advancing social equity in marine conservation and identify the capacities these organizations need to build. We urge the marine conservation community, including governments, non-governmental organizations and donors, to commit to the pursuit of socially equitable conservation."	"8"	"July"	"711538"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3389/fmars.2021.711538"	NA	"pubid: djft3U1LymYC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"In situ resistance, not immigration, supports invertebrate community resilience to drought intensification in a neotropical ecosystem"	"Bonhomme, Camille ; Céréghino, Régis ; Carrias, Jean-François ; Compin, Arthur ; Corbara, Bruno ; Jassey, Vincent ; Leflaive, Joséphine ; Farjalla, Vinicius F. ; Marino, Nicholas A. C. ; Rota, Thibaut ; Srivastava, Diane S. ; Leroy, Céline"	"Journal of Animal Ecology"	NA	NA	NA	"90"	"9"	"2015–2026"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/1365-2656.13392"	NA	"pubid: J-ba04ztB30C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"What evidence exists on how changes in marine ecosystem structure and functioning affect ecosystem services delivery? A systematic map protocol"	"Campagne, C. Sylvie ; Langridge, Joseph ; Claudet, Joachim ; Mongruel, Rémi ; Thiébaut, Eric"	"Environmental Evidence"	NA	NA	NA	"10"	NA	"36"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1186/s13750-021-00251-x"	"10.1186/s13750-021-00251-x"	"pubid: Weau3kkTRIMC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Juvenile corals underpin coral reef carbonate production after disturbance"	"Carlot, Jérémy ; Kayal, Mohsen ; Lenihan, Hunter S. ; Brandl, Simon J. ; Casey, Jordan M. ; Adjeroud, Mehdi ; Cardini, Ulisse ; Merciere, Alexandre ; Espiau, Benoit ; Barneche, Diego R. ; Rovere, Alessio ; Hédouin, Laetitia ; Parravicini, Valeriano"	"Global Change Biology"	NA	NA	"Sea-level rise is predicted to cause major damage to tropical coastlines. While coral reefs can act as natural barriers for ocean waves, their protection hinges on the ability of scleractinian corals to produce enough calcium carbonate (CaCO3) to keep up with rising sea levels. As a consequence of intensifying disturbances, coral communities are changing rapidly, potentially reducing community-level CaCO3 production. By combining colony-level physiology and long-term monitoring data, we show that reefs recovering from major disturbances can produce 40% more CaCO3 than currently estimated due to the disproportionate contribution of juvenile corals. However, the buffering effect of highly productive juvenile corals is compromised by recruitment failures, which have been more frequently observed after large-scale, repeated bleaching events. While the size structure of corals can bolster a critical ecological function on reefs, climate change impacts on recruitment may undermine this buffering effect, thus further compromising the persistence of reefs and their provision of important ecosystem services."	"27"	"11"	"2623–2632"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/gcb.15610"	NA	"pubid: xm1hsP5ya-EC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Spatial patterns of genus-level phylogenetic endemism in the tree flora of Mediterranean Europe"	"Cheikh Albassatneh, Marwan ; Escudero, Marcial ; Monnet, Anne-Christine ; Arroyo, Juan ; Baccheta, Gianni ; Bagnoli, Francesca ; Dimopoulos, Panayotis ; Hampe, Arndt ; Leriche, Agathe ; Médail, Frédéric ; Nikolic, Toni ; Ponger, Loïc ; Vendramin, Giovanni Giuseppe ; Fady, Bruno"	"Diversity and Distributions"	NA	NA	NA	"27"	"5"	"913–928"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ddi.13241"	NA	"pubid: 3pYxbvHKFu8C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Tectonics, climate and the diversification of the tropical African terrestrial flora and fauna"	"Couvreur, Thomas L. P. ; Dauby, Gilles ; Blach-Overgaard, Anne ; Deblauwe, Vincent ; Dessein, Steven ; Droissart, Vincent ; Hardy, Oliver J. ; Harris, David J. ; Janssens, Steven B. ; Ley, Alexandra C. ; Mackinder, Barbara A. ; Sonké, Bonaventure ; Sosef, Marc S. M. ; Stévart, Tariq ; Svenning, Jens-christian ; Wieringa, Jan J. ; Faye, Adama"	"Biological Reviews"	NA	NA	NA	"96"	"1"	"16–51"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/brv.12644"	NA	"pubid: HoDPlbNd1QC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"It more than adds up: interaction of antibiotic mixing and temperature"	"Danner, Marie-Claire ; Azams, Sharon Omonor ; Robertson, Anne ; Perkins, Daniel ; Behrends, Volker ; Reiss, Julia"	"Life"	NA	NA	NA	"11"	NA	"1435"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3390/life11121435"	NA	"pubid: tfDI-GPdlUQC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"The role of Indigenous peoples and local communities in effective and equitable conservation"	"Dawson, Neil M. ; Coolsaet, Brendan ; Sterling, Eleanor J. ; Loveridge, Robin ; Gross-Camp, Nicole D. ; Wongbusarakum, Supin ; Sangha, Kamaljit K. ; Scherl, Lea M. ; Phuong Phan, Hao ; Zafra-Calvo, Noelia ; Lavey, Warren G. ; Byakagaba, Patrick ; Idrobo, C. Julian ; Chenet, Aude ; Bennett, Nathan J. ; Mansourian, Stephanie ; Rosado-May, Francisco J."	"Ecology and Society"	NA	NA	"Debate about what proportion of the Earth to protect often overshadows the question of how nature should be conserved and by whom. We present a systematic review and narrative synthesis of 169 publications investigating how different forms of governance influence conservation outcomes, paying particular attention to the role played by Indigenous peoples and local communities. We find a stark contrast between the outcomes produced by externally controlled conservation, and those produced by locally controlled efforts. Crucially, most studies presenting positive outcomes for both well-being and conservation come from cases where Indigenous peoples and local communities play a central role, such as when they have substantial influence over decision making or when local institutions regulating tenure form a recognized part of governance. In contrast, when interventions are controlled by external organizations and involve strategies to change local practices and supersede customary institutions, they tend to result in relatively ineffective conservation at the same time as producing negative social outcomes. Our findings suggest that equitable conservation, which empowers and supports the environmental stewardship of Indigenous peoples and local communities represents the primary pathway to effective long-term conservation of biodiversity, particularly when upheld in wider law and policy. Whether for protected areas in biodiversity hotspots or restoration of highly modified ecosystems, whether involving highly traditional or diverse and dynamic local communities, conservation can become more effective through an increased focus on governance type and quality, and fostering solutions that reinforce the role, capacity, and rights of Indigenous peoples and local communities. We detail how to enact progressive governance transitions through recommendations for conservation policy, with immediate relevance for how to achieve the next decade's conservation targets under the UN Convention on Biological Diversity."	"26"	"3"	"19"	NA	NA	NA	"10.5751/ES-12625-260319"	NA	"pubid: AmrzkₖtLr0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Description of three new species of automeris hübner, 1819 from colombia and brazil (lepidoptera, saturniidae, hemileucinae)"	"Decaëns, Thibaud ; Bénéluz, Frédéric ; Ballesteros-Mejia, Liliana ; Bonilla, Diego ; Rougerie, Rodolphe"	"ZooKeys"	NA	NA	"The Saturniidae is one of the most emblematic families of moths, comprising nearly 3000 species distributed globally. In this study, DNA barcode analysis and comparative morphology were combined to describe three new species within the genus Automeris, which is the most diverse genus in the family. Automeris llan-eros Decaëns, Rougerie & Bonilla, sp. nov., Automeris mineros Decaëns, Rougerie & Bonilla, sp. nov., and Automeris belemensis Decaëns, Rougerie & Bénéluz, sp. nov. are described from the Colombian Orinoco watershed, the Colombian Eastern Cordillera, and the area of endemism of Belém in the Brazilian Ama-zonia, respectively. They all belong to the Automeris bilinea (Walker, 1855) species subgroup, which com-prises a number of species that are sometimes difficult to distinguish from each other using morphology alone. Here, the description of these three new species is based on significant differences from their closest relatives, either in terms of wing patterns, genitalia, DNA barcodes or a combination of these features."	"1031"	NA	"183–204"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3897/zookeys.1031.56035"	NA	"pubid: G7txJ4jiatkC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"The extent and variability of storm-induced temperature changes in lakes measured with long-term and high-frequency data"	"Doubek, Jonathan P. ; Anneville, Orlane ; Dur, Gaël ; Lewandowska, Aleksandra M. ; Patil, Vijay P. ; Rusak, James A. ; Salmaso, Nico ; Seltmann, Christian Torsten ; Straile, Dietmar ; Urrutia-Cordero, Pablo ; Venail, Patrick ; Adrian, Rita ; Alfonso, María B. ; DeGasperi, Curtis L. ; de Eyto, Elvira ; Feuchtmayr, Heidrun ; Gaiser, Evelyn E. ; Girdner, Scott F. ; Graham, Jennifer L. ; Grossart, Hans-Peter ; Hejzlar, Josef ; Jacquet, Stéphan ; Kirillin, Georgiy ; Llames, María E. ; Matsuzaki, Shin‐Ichiro S. ; Nodine, Emily R. ; Piccolo, Maria Cintia ; Pierson, Don C. ; Rimmer, Alon ; Rudstam, Lars G. ; Sadro, Steven ; Swain, Hilary M. ; Thackeray, Stephen J. ; Thiery, Wim ; Verburg, Piet ; Zohary, Tamar ; Stockwell, Jason D."	"Limnology and Oceanography"	NA	NA	"The intensity and frequency of storms are projected to increase in many regions of the world because of cli- mate change. Storms can alter environmental conditions in many ecosystems. In lakes and reservoirs, storms can reduce epilimnetic temperatures from wind-induced mixing with colder hypolimnetic waters, direct precipi- tation to the lake's surface, and watershed runoff. We analyzed 18 long-term and high-frequency lake datasets from 11 countries to assess the magnitude of wind- vs. rainstorm-induced changes in epilimnetic temperature. We found small day-to-day epilimnetic temperature decreases in response to strong wind and heavy rain during stratified conditions. Day-to-day epilimnetic temperature decreased, on average, by 0.28°C during the strongest observed ≥2 d after sustained strong wind or heavy rain (top 5th percentile of wind and rain events for each lake) rainstorms (storm mean daily rainfall: 21.3 +/- 9.0 mm). The largest decreases in epilimnetic temperature were windstorms (storm mean daily wind speed among lakes: 6.7 +/- 2.7 m s−1, 1 SD) and by 0.15°C after the heaviest in shallow and medium-depth lakes. The smallest decreases occurred in deep lakes. Epilimnetic temperature change from windstorms, but not rainstorms, was negatively correlated with maximum lake depth. However, even the largest storm-induced mean epilimnetic temperature decreases were typically ¡2°C. Day-to-day temper- ature change, in the absence of storms, often exceeded storm-induced temperature changes. Because storm-induced temperature changes to lake surface waters were minimal, changes in other limnological variables (e.g., nutrient concentrations or light) from storms may have larger impacts on biological communities than temperature changes."	"66"	NA	"1979–1992"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1002/lno.11739"	NA	"pubid: vkz5F8TaVKkC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Do ecological specialization and functional traits explain the abundance-frequency relationship? Arable weeds as a case study"	"Fried, Guillaume ; Armengot, Laura ; Storkey, Jonathan ; Bourgeois, Bérenger ; Gaba, Sabrina ; Violle, Cyrille ; Munoz, François"	"Journal of Biogeography"	NA	NA	NA	"48"	"1"	"37–50"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/jbi.13980"	NA	"pubid: RdUpO4xyVKMC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Phylogeny, body morphology, and trophic level shape intestinal traits in coral reef fishes"	"Ghilardi, Mattia ; Schiettekatte, N.ina M. D. ; Casey, Jordan M. ; Brandl, Simon J. ; Degregory, Samuel ; Mercière, Alexandre ; Morat, Fabien ; Letourneur, Yves ; Bejarano, Sonia ; Parravicini, Valeriano"	"Ecology and Evolution"	NA	NA	NA	"11"	"19"	"13218–13231"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1002/ece3.8045"	NA	"pubid: RgMnzfD6kpIC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Unveiling ecological assembly rules from commonalities in trait distributions"	"Gross, Nicolas ; Le Bagousse-Pinguet, Yoann ; Liancourt, Pierre ; Saiz, Hugo ; Violle, Cyrille ; Munoz, François"	"Ecology Letters"	NA	NA	"Deciphering the effect of neutral and deterministic processes on community as- sembly is critical to understand and predict diversity patterns. The information held in community trait distributions is commonly assumed as a signature of these processes, but empirical and modelling attempts have most often failed to untangle their confounding, sometimes opposing, impacts. Here, we simulated the assembly of trait distributions through stochastic (dispersal limitation) and/or deterministic scenarios (environmental filtering and niche differentiation). We characterized the shape of trait distributions using the skewness– kurtosis relationship. We identi- fied commonalities in the co- variation between the skewness and the kurtosis of trait distributions with a unique signature for each simulated assembly scenario. Our findings were robust to variation in the composition of regional species pools, dispersal limitation and environmental conditions. While ecological communities can exhibit a high degree of idiosyncrasy, identification of commonalities across multiple communities can help to unveil ecological assembly rules in real- world ecosystems."	"24"	"8"	"1668–1680"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ele.13789"	NA	"pubid: 0urtJCGzaFQC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Climate influences the response of community functional traits to local conditions in bromeliad invertebrate communities"	"Guzman, Laura M. ; Trzcinski, M. Kurtis ; Barberis, Ignacio M. ; Céréghino, Régis ; Srivastava, Diane S. ; Gilbert, Benjamin ; Pillar, Valério D. ; de Omena, Paula M. ; MacDonald, A. Andrew M. ; Corbara, Bruno ; Leroy, Céline ; Ospina Bautista, Fabiola ; Romero, Gustavo Q. ; Kratina, K. ; Debastiani, Vanderlei J. ; Gonçalves, Ana Z. ; Farjalla, Vinicius F. ; Richardson, Barbara A. ; Richardson, Michael J. ; Dézerald, Olivier ; Petermann, Jana ; Talaga, Stanislas ; Piccoli, Gustavo C. O. ; Jocqué, Merlijn ; Montero, Guillermo"	"Ecography"	NA	NA	NA	"44"	NA	"440–452"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ecog.05437"	NA	"pubid: TNEldfgDb5MC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"The wild silkmoths (lepidoptera: Bombycoidea: Saturniidae) of colombia: a database of occurrence points and taxonomic checklist"	"Jiménez-Bolívar, Andrea C. ; Prada-Lara, Liliana ; St Laurent, Ryan A. ; Rougerie, Rodolphe"	"Zootaxa"	NA	NA	"Based on the review of literature and biological collections, information retrieved from public online databases, and from fieldwork conducted between 2015 and 2020, we provide more than 3500 occurrence records and an updated checklist of Colombian Saturniidae, annotated with distribution data for all species. In the first checklist of Colombian saturniids published two decades ago, a total of 184 species were cited; in the current update the number has risen to 653 species/ subspecies classified in 55 genera, representing all six recognized Neotropical subfamilies. The Andean and Pacific regions are the richest, accounting for about three quarters of all species listed herein. We call attention to the fact that for most speciose saturniid genera in the Neotropics, there remains a significant need for further taxonomic and systematic research with objective and integrative approaches. Likewise, it is necessary to continue the study of Saturniidae moths in Colombia, strategically increasing the sampling efforts in specific under-sampled natural regions to further document the diversity of this family in the country."	"5081"	"2"	"151–202"	NA	NA	NA	"10.11646/zootaxa.5081.2.1"	NA	"pubid: ZpgFv6i7Z4gC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Phytoplankton and cyanobacteria abundances in mid‐21st century lakes depend strongly on future land use and climate projections"	"Kakouei, Karan ; Kraemer, Benjamin M. ; Anneville, Orlane ; Carvalho, Laurence ; Feuchtmayr, Heidrun ; Graham, Jennifer L. ; Higgins, Scott ; Pomati, Francesco ; Rudstam, Lars G. ; Stockwell, Jason D. ; Thackeray, Stephen J. ; Vanni, Michael J. ; Adrian, Rita"	"Global Change Biology"	NA	NA	"Land use and climate change are anticipated to affect phytoplankton of lakes worldwide. The effects will depend on the magnitude of projected land use and climate changes and lake sensitivity to these factors. We used random forests fit with long-term (1971–2016) phytoplankton and cyanobacteria abundance time series, climate observations (1971–2016), and upstream catchment land use (global Clumondo models for the year 2000) data from 14 European and 15 North American lakes basins. We projected future phytoplankton and cyanobacteria abundance in the 29 focal lake basins and 1567 lakes across focal regions based on three land use (sustainability, middle of the road, and regional rivalry) and two climate (RCP 2.6 and 8.5) scenarios to mid-21st century. On average, lakes are expected to have higher phytoplankton and cyanobacteria due to increases in both urban land use and temperature, and decreases in forest habitat. However, the relative importance of land use and climate effects varied substantially among regions and lakes. Accounting for land use and climate changes in a combined way based on extensive data allowed us to identify urbanization as the major driver of phytoplankton development in lakes located in urban areas, and climate as major driver in lakes located in remote areas where past and future land use changes were minimal. For approximately one-third of the studied lakes, both drivers were relatively important. The results of this large scale study suggest the best approaches for mitigating the effects of human activity on lake phytoplankton and cyanobacteria will depend strongly on lake sensitivity to long-term change and the magnitude of projected land use and climate changes at a given location. Our quantitative analyses suggest local management measures should focus on retaining nutrients in urban landscapes to prevent nutrient pollution from exacerbating ongoing changes to lake ecosystems from climate change."	"27"	NA	"6409–6422"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/gcb.15866"	NA	"pubid: beqBT5984LEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"An integrated approach to estimate aesthetic and ecological values of coralligenous reefs"	"Langlois, Juliette ; Guilhaumon, François ; Bockel, Thomas ; Boissery, Pierre ; de Almeida Braga, Cédric ; Deter, Julie ; Holon, Florian ; Marre, Guilhem ; Tribot, Anne-Sophie ; Mouquet, Nicolas"	"Ecological Indicators"	NA	NA	"Assessing non-material nature contributions to people has become one major challenge in biodiversity sciences. Among them, the aesthetic value of biodiversity is of strong importance as it contributes to human well-being and increases the collective willingness to engage in conservation efforts. Using the endangered coralligenous reefs along the French Mediterranean coastline as a case study, we propose a quantitative approach to estimate the aesthetic and ecological values of a marine ecosystem. We combined human image evaluation and deep learning algorithms to provide a quantitative estimation of the aesthetic value of 7692 photographic quadrats among 160 stations located between 20 and 90 m depth and gathered on 95 sites. To understand how aesthetic value is related to biodiversity metrics, environmental variables and anthropogenic pressures we used a structural equation modelling approach. We found that taxonomic diversity and species composition explained a significant part of the aesthetic value of the coralligenous reefs. Taxonomic diversity showed a net positive effect and species composition analysis highlighted both positive and negative effects of some species on the aesthetic value. Net negative effects of functional and phylogenetic diversities were found, which illustrates an aesthetic bias in human perception of ecological value. The aesthetic and ecological values were mapped along the French Mediterranean coastline in three dimensions (longitude, latitude, depth); this synthetic visualization could be of strong interest for conservation and communication purposes about this endangered benthic key-ecosystem of the Mediterranean Sea. Overall, our approach provides a geographically scalable estimate of the aesthetic value of biodiversity which is still an underestimated facet of nature contributions to people. It could be transposed to other marine ecosystems such as coral reefs but also to terrestrial landscapes for which an increasing number of images evaluated for human preference are becoming available."	"129"	NA	"107935"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.ecolind.2021.107935"	NA	"pubid: mS4qin7VKjkC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Are we ready to track climate-driven shifts in marine species across international boundaries? - A global survey of scientific bottom trawl data"	"Maureaud, Aurore ; Frelat, Romain ; Pécuchet, Laurène ; Shackell, Nancy ; Mérigot, Bastien ; Pinsky, Malin L. ; Amador, Kofi ; Anderson, Sean C. ; Arkhipkin, Alexander ; Auber, Arnaud ; Barri, Iça ; Bell, Richard J. ; Belmaker, Jonathan ; Beukhof, Esther ; Camara, Mohamed Lamine ; Guevara-Carrasco, Renato ; Choi, Junghwa ; Christensen, Helle Torp ; Conner, Jason ; Cubillos, Luis A. ; Diadhiou, Hamet Diaw ; Edelist, Dori ; Emblemsvag, Margrete ; Ernst, Billy ; Fairweather, Tracey P. ; Fock, Heino O. ; Friedland, Kevin D. ; Garcia, Camilo B. ; Gascuel, Didier ; Gislason, Henrik ; Goren, Menachem ; Guitton, Jérôme ; Jouffre, Didier ; Hattab, Tarek ; Hidalgo, Manuel ; Kathena, Johannes N ; Knuckey, Ian ; Kidé, Saïkou Oumar ; Koen-Alonso, Mariano ; Koopman, Matt ; Kulik, Vladimir ; León, Jacqueline Palacios ; Levitt-Barmats, Ya'arit ; Lindegren, Martin ; Llope, Marcos ; Massiot-Granier, Félix ; Masski, Hicham ; McLean, Matthew ; Meissa, Beyah ; Mérillet, Laurène ; Mihneva, Vesselina ; Nunoo, Francis K. E. ; O'Driscoll, Richard ; O'Leary, Cecilia A. ; Petrova, Elitsa ; Ramos, Jorge E. ; Refes, Wahid ; Román-Marcote, Esther ; Siegstad, Helle ; Sobrino, Ignacio ; Sólmundsson, Jón ; Sonin, Oren ; Spies, Ingrid ; Steingrund, Petur ; Stephenson, Fabrice ; Stern, Nir ; Tserkova, Feriha ; Tserpes, Georges ; Tzanatos, Evangelos ; van Rijn, Itai ; van Zwieten, Paul A. M. ; Vasilakopoulos, Paraskevas ; Yepsen, Daniela V. ; Ziegler, Philippe ; Thorson, James"	"Global Change Biology"	NA	NA	"Abstract Marine biota are redistributing at a rapid pace in response to climate change and shifting seascapes. While changes in fish populations and community structure threaten the sustainability of fisheries, our capacity to adapt by tracking and projecting marine species remains a challenge due to data discontinuities in biological observations, lack of data availability, and mismatch between data and real species distributions. To assess the extent of this challenge, we review the global status and accessibility of ongoing scientific bottom trawl surveys. In total, we gathered metadata for 283,925 samples from 95 surveys conducted regularly from 2001 to 2019. We identified that 59% of the metadata collected are not publicly available, highlighting that the availability of data is the most important challenge to assess species redistributions under global climate change. Given that the primary purpose of surveys is to provide independent data to inform stock assessment of commercially important populations, we further highlight that single surveys do not cover the full range of the main commercial demersal fish species. An average of 18 surveys is needed to cover at least 50% of species ranges, demonstrating the importance of combining multiple surveys to evaluate species range shifts. We assess the potential for combining surveys to track transboundary species redistributions and show that differences in sampling schemes and inconsistency in sampling can be overcome with spatio-temporal modeling to follow species density redistributions. In light of our global assessment, we establish a framework for improving the management and conservation of transboundary and migrating marine demersal species. We provide directions to improve data availability and encourage countries to share survey data, to assess species vulnerabilities, and to support management adaptation in a time of climate-driven ocean changes."	"27"	"2"	"220–236"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/gcb.15404"	"https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/gcb.15404"	"pubid: C5mqfHIFIucC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"WOODIV, a database of occurrences, functional traits, and phylogenetic data for all Euro-Mediterranean trees"	"Monnet, Anne-Christine ; Cilleros, Kévin ; Médail, Frédéric ; Cheikh Albassatneh, Marwan ; Arroyo, Juan ; Bacchetta, Gianluigi ; Bagnoli, Francesca ; Barina, Zoltán ; Cartereau, Manuel ; Casajus, Nicolas ; Dimopoulos, Panayotis ; Domina, Gianniantonio ; Doxa, Aggeliki ; Escudero, Marcial ; Fady, Bruno ; Hampe, Arndt ; Matevski, Vlado ; Misfud, Stephen ; Nikolic, Toni ; Pavon, Daniel ; Roig, Anne ; Barea, Estefania Santos ; Spanu, Ilaria ; Strid, Arne ; Vendramin, Giovanni Giuseppe ; Leriche, Agathe"	"Scientific Data"	NA	NA	"trees play a key role in the structure and function of many ecosystems worldwide. In the Mediterranean Basin, forests cover approximately 22% of the total land area hosting a large number of endemics (46 species). Despite its particularities and vulnerability, the biodiversity of Mediterranean trees is not well known at the taxonomic, spatial, functional, and genetic levels required for conservation applications. The WOODIV database fills this gap by providing reliable occurrences, four functional traits (plant height, seed mass, wood density, and specific leaf area), and sequences from three DNA-regions (rbcL, matK, and trnH-psbA), together with modelled occurrences and a phylogeny for all 210 Euro- Mediterranean tree species. We compiled, homogenized, and verified occurrence data from sparse datasets and collated them on an INSPIRE-compliant 10 × 10 km grid. We also gathered functional trait and genetic data, filling existing gaps where possible. The WOODIV database can benefit macroecological studies in the fields of conservation, biogeography, and community ecology."	"8"	NA	"89"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41597-021-00873-3"	NA	"pubid: yaBp1wUtcLsC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"The dimensionality and structure of species trait spaces"	"Mouillot, David ; Loiseau, Nicolas ; Grenié, Matthias ; Algar, Adam C. ; Allegra, Michele ; Cadotte, Marc W. ; Casajus, Nicolas ; Denelle, Pierre ; Guéguen, Maya ; Maire, Anthony ; Maitner, Brian ; McGill, Brian J. ; McLean, Matthew ; Mouquet, Nicolas ; Munoz, François ; Thuiller, Wilfried ; Villéger, Sébastien ; Violle, Cyrille ; Auber, Arnaud"	"Ecology Letters"	NA	NA	"Trait- based ecology aims to understand the processes that generate the overarch- ing diversity of organismal traits and their influence on ecosystem functioning. Achieving this goal requires simplifying this complexity in synthetic axes defining a trait space and to cluster species based on their traits while identifying those with unique combinations of traits. However, so far, we know little about the dimen- sionality, the robustness to trait omission and the structure of these trait spaces. Here, we propose a unified framework and a synthesis across 30 trait datasets rep- resenting a broad variety of taxa, ecosystems and spatial scales to show that a common trade- off between trait space quality and operationality appears between three and six dimensions. The robustness to trait omission is generally low but highly variable among datasets. We also highlight invariant scaling relationships, whatever organismal complexity, between the number of clusters, the number of species in the dominant cluster and the number of unique species with total species richness. When species richness increases, the number of unique species saturates, whereas species tend to disproportionately pack in the richest cluster. Based on these results, we propose some rules of thumb to build species trait spaces and estimate subsequent functional diversity indices."	"24"	"9"	"1988–2009"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ele.13778"	NA	"pubid: UY3hNwcQ290C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Rebound in functional distinctiveness following warming and reduced fishing in the North Sea"	"Murgier, Juliette ; McLean, Matthew ; Maire, Anthony ; Mouillot, David ; Loiseau, Nicolas ; Munoz, François ; Violle, Cyrille ; Auber, Arnaud"	"Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences"	NA	NA	"Functionally distinct species (i.e. species with unique trait combinations in the community) can support important ecological roles and contribute dispropor- tionately to ecosystem functioning. Yet, how functionally distinct species have responded to recent climate change and human exploitation has been widely overlooked. Here, using ecological traits and long-term fish data in the North Sea, we identified functionally distinct and functionally common species, andevaluatedtheir spatial andtemporaldynamics in relation to environmental variables and fishing pressure. Functionally distinct specieswere characterized by late sexualmaturity, few, large offspring, andhighparental care, many being sharks and skates that play critical roles in structuring food webs. Both func- tionally distinct and functionally common species increased in abundance as ocean temperatures warmed and fishing pressure decreased over the last three decades; however, functionally distinct species increased throughout the North Sea, but primarily in southern North Sea where fishing was histori- cally most intense, indicating a rebound following fleet decommissioning and reduced harvesting. Yet, some of the most functionally distinct species are cur- rently listed as threatened by the IUCN and considered highly vulnerable to fishing pressure. Alarmingly these species have not rebounded. This work highlights the relevance and potential of integrating functional distinctiveness into ecosystem management and conservation prioritization."	"288"	NA	"20201600"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1098/rspb.2020.1600"	NA	"pubid: 0paDrhnEFY0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Coral reef fishes reveal strong divergence in the prevalence of traits along the global diversity gradient"	"Parravicini, Valeriano ; Bender, Mariana G. ; Villéger, Sébastien ; Leprieur, Fabien ; Pellissier, Loïc ; Donati, F. G. A. ; Floeter, Sergio R. ; Rezende, Enrico L. ; Mouillot, David ; Kulbicki, Michel"	"Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences"	NA	NA	NA	"288"	NA	"20211712"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1098/rspb.2021.1712"	NA	"pubid: -w1eE4La9EC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Congruent trophic pathways underpin global coral reef food webs"	"Pozas-Schacre, Chloé ; Casey, Jordan M. ; Brandl, Simon J. ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Harmelin-Vivien, Mireille ; Strona, Giovanni ; Parravicini, Valeriano"	"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America"	NA	NA	"Ecological interactions uphold ecosystem structure and functioning. However, as species richness increases, the number of possible interactions rises exponentially. More than 6,000 species of coral reef fishes exist across the world's tropical oceans, resulting in an almost innumerable array of possible trophic interactions. Distilling general patterns in these interactions across different bioregions stands to improve our understanding of the processes that govern coral reef functioning. Here, we show that across bioregions, tropical coral reef food webs exhibit a remarkable congruence in their trophic interactions. Specifically, by compiling and investigating the structure of six coral reef food webs across distinct bioregions, we show that when accounting for consumer size and resource availability, these food webs share more trophic interactions than expected by chance. In addition, coral reef food webs are dominated by dietary specialists, which makes trophic pathways vulnerable to biodiversity loss. Prey partitioning among these specialists is geographically consistent, and this pattern intensifies when weak interactions are disregarded. Our results suggest that energy flows through coral reef communities along broadly comparable trophic pathways. Yet, these critical pathways are maintained by species with narrow, specialized diets, which threatens the existence of coral reef functioning in the face of biodiversity loss."	"118"	"39"	"e2100966118"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1073/pnas.2100966118"	NA	"pubid: tL5YfqkXb3gC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Protecting the global ocean for biodiversity, food and climate"	"Sala, Enric ; Mayorga, Juan ; Bradley, Darcy ; Cabral, Reniel B. ; Atwood, Trisha B. ; Auber, Arnaud ; Cheung, William ; Costello, Christopher ; Ferretti, Francesco ; Friedlander, Alan M. ; Gaines, Steven D. ; Garilao, Cristina ; Goodell, Whitney ; Halpern, Benjamin S. ; Hinson, Audra ; Kaschner, Kristin ; Kesner-Reyes, Kathleen ; Leprieur, Fabien ; McGowan, Jennifer ; Morgan, Lance E. ; Mouillot, David ; Palacios-Abrantes, Juliano ; Possingham, Hugh P. ; Rechberger, Kristin D. ; Worm, Boris ; Lubchenco, Jane"	"Nature"	NA	NA	NA	"592"	NA	"397–402"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41586-021-03371-z"	"http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41586-021-03371-z"	"pubid: SEKBqlyTJecC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Maintaining momentum for collaborative working groups in a post-pandemic world"	"Srivastava, Diane S. ; Winter, Marten ; Gross, Louis J. ; Metzger, Jean Paul ; Baron, Jill S. ; Mouquet, Nicolas ; Meagher, Thomas R. ; Halpern, Benjamin S. ; Pillar, Valério D."	"Nature Ecology & Evolution"	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41559-021-01521-0"	NA	"pubid: PazO6pb-sMwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Ecological dependencies make remote reef fish communities most vulnerable to coral loss"	"Strona, Giovanni ; Beck, Pieter S.A. ; Cabeza, Mar ; Fattorini, Simone ; Guilhaumon, François ; Micheli, Fiorenza ; Montano, Simone ; Ovaskainen, Otso ; Planes, Serge ; Veech, Joseph A. ; Parravicini, Valeriano"	"Nature Communications"	NA	NA	"Ecosystems face both local hazards, such as over-exploitation, and global hazards, such as climate change. Since the impact of local hazards attenuates with distance from humans, local extinction risk should decrease with remoteness, making faraway areas safe havens for biodiversity. However, isolation and reduced anthropogenic disturbance may increase eco- logical specialization in remote communities, and hence their vulnerability to secondary effects of diversity loss propagating through networks of interacting species. We show this to be true for reef fish communities across the globe. An increase in fish-coral dependency with the distance of coral reefs from human settlements, paired with the far-reaching impacts of global hazards, increases the risk of fish species loss, counteracting the benefits of remo- teness. Hotspots of fish risk from fish-coral dependency are distinct from those caused by direct human impacts, increasing the number of risk hotspots by ∼30% globally. These findings might apply to other ecosystems on Earth and depict a world where no place, no matter how remote, is safe for biodiversity, calling for a reconsideration of global con- servation priorities."	"12"	NA	"7282"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41467-021-27440-z"	NA	"pubid: AkvegQHRDQ8C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Global tropical reef fish richness could decline by around half if corals are lost"	"Strona, Giovanni ; Lafferty, Kevin D. ; Fattorini, Simone ; Beck, Pieter S.A. ; Guilhaumon, François ; Arrigoni, Roberto ; Montano, Simone ; Seveso, Davide ; Galli, Paolo ; Planes, Serge ; Parravicini, Valeriano"	"Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences"	NA	NA	NA	"288"	NA	"20210274"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1098/rspb.2021.0274"	NA	"pubid: bxPAEoiBajcC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Which method for which purpose ? A comparison of line intercept transect and underwater photogrammetry methods for coral reef surveys"	"Urbina-Barreto, Isabel ; Garnier, Rémi ; Elise, Simon ; Pinel, Romain ; Dumas, Pascal ; Mahamadaly, Vincent ; Facon, Mathilde ; Bureau, Sophie ; Peignon, Christophe ; Quod, Jean-Pascal ; Dutrieux, Eric ; Penin, Lucie ; Adjeroud, Mehdi"	"Frontiers in Marine Science"	NA	NA	"The choice of ecological monitoring methods and descriptors determines the effectiveness of a program designed to assess the state of coral reef ecosystems. Here, we comparer the relative performance of the traditional Line Intercept Transect (LIT) method with three methods derived from underwater photogrammetry: LIT on orthomosaics, photoquadrats from orthomosaics, and surface analyses on orthomosaics. The data were acquired at Reunion Island on five outer reef slopes and two coral communities on underwater lava-flows. Coral cover was estimated in situ using the LIT method and with LITs and photoquadrats digitized on orthomosaic. Surface analyses were done on the same orthomosaics. Structural complexity of the surveyed sites was calculated from digital elevation models using three physical descriptors (fractal dimension, slope, surface complexity), and used to explore their possible influence in coral cover estimates. We also compared the methods in terms of scientific outputs, the human expertise and time required. Coral cover estimates obtained with in situ LITs were higher than those obtained with digitized LITs and photoquadrats. Surfaces analyses on orthomosaics yielded the lowest but most the precise cover estimates (i.e., lowest sample dispersion). Sites with the highest coral cover also had the highest structural complexity. Finally, when we added scientific outputs, and requirements for human expertise and time to our comparisons between methods, we found that surface analysis on the orthomosaics was the most efficient method. Photoquadrats were more time-consuming than both in situ and digitized LITs, even though they provided coral cover estimates similar to those of digitized LITs and yielded more than one descriptor. The LIT in situ method remains the least time-consuming and most effective for species-level taxonomic identifications but is the most limited method in terms of data outputs and representativeness of the ecosystem."	"8"	NA	"636902"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3389/fmars.2021.636902"	NA	"pubid: V63Ir2N1OTwC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2021"	"Climate change and local host availability drive the northern range boundary in the rapid expansion of a specialist insect herbivore, Papilio cresphontes"	"Wilson, J. Keaton ; Casajus, Nicolas ; Hutchinson, Rebecca A. ; McFarland, Kent P. ; Kerr, Jeremy T. ; Berteaux, Dominique ; Larrivée, Maxim ; Prudic, Kathleen L."	"Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution"	NA	NA	NA	"9"	NA	"579230"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3389/fevo.2021.579230"	NA	"pubid: JhbybO29vGQC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Global decline of pelagic fauna in a warmer ocean"	"Ariza, Alejandro ; Lengaigne, Matthieu ; Menkes, Christophe ; Lebourges-Dhaussy, Anne ; Receveur, Aurore ; Gorgues, Thomas ; Habasque, Jérémie ; Gutiérrez, Mariano ; Maury, Olivier ; Bertrand, Arnaud"	"Nature Climate Change"	NA	NA	"Pelagic fauna is expected to be impacted under climate change according to ecosystem simulations. However, the direction and magnitude of the impact is still uncertain and still not corroborated by observation-based statistical studies. Here we compile a global underwater sonar database and 20 ocean climate projections to predict the future distribution of sound-scattering fauna around the world's oceans. We show that global pelagic fauna will be seriously compromised by the end of the twenty-first century if we continue under the current greenhouse emission scenario. Low and mid latitudes are expected to lose from 3% to 22% of animal biomass due to the expansion of low-productive systems, while higher latitudes would be populated by present-day temperate fauna, supporting results from ecosystem simulations. We further show that strong mitigation measures to contain global warming below 2°C would reduce these impacts to less than half."	NA	NA	"accepted"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41558-022-01479-2"	NA	NA
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"A functional vulnerability framework for biodiversity conservation"	"Auber, Arnaud ; Waldock, Conor ; Maire, Anthony ; Goberville, Eric ; Albouy, Camille ; Algar, Adam C. ; McLean, Matthew ; Brind'Amour, Anik ; Green, Alison L. ; Tupper, Mark ; Vigliola, Laurent ; Kaschner, Kristin ; Kesner-Reyes, Kathleen ; Beger, Maria ; Tjiputra, Jerry ; Toussaint, Aurèle ; Violle, Cyrille ; Mouquet, Nicolas ; Thuiller, Wilfried ; Mouillot, David"	"Nature Communications"	NA	NA	"Setting appropriate conservation strategies in a multi-threat world is a challenging goal, especially because of natural complexity and budget limitations that prevent effective management of all ecosystems. Safeguarding the most threatened ecosystems requires accurate and integrative quantification of their vulnerability and their functioning, particularly the potential loss of species trait diversity which imperils their functioning. However, the magnitude of threats and associated biological responses both have high uncertainties. Additionally, a major difficulty is the recurrent lack of reference conditions for a fair and operational measurement of vulnerability. Here, we present a functional vulnerability framework that incorporates uncertainty and reference conditions into a generalizable tool. Through in silico simulations of disturbances, our framework allows us to quantify the vulnerability of communities to a wide range of threats. We demonstrate the relevance and operationality of our framework, and its global, scalable and quantitative comparability, through three case studies on marine fishes and mammals. We show that functional vulnerability has marked geographic and temporal patterns. We underline contrasting contributions of species richness and functional redundancy to the level of vulnerability among case studies, indicating that our integrative assessment can also identify the drivers of vulnerability in a world where uncertainty is omnipresent."	"13"	"1"	"4774"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41467-022-32331-y"	NA	NA
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Plant community impact on productivity: Trait diversity or key (stone) species effects?"	"Brun, Philipp ; Violle, Cyrille ; Mouillot, David ; Mouquet, Nicolas ; Enquist, Brian J. ; Munoz, François ; Münkemüller, Tamara ; Ostling, Annette ; Zimmermann, Niklaus E. ; Thuiller, Wilfried"	"Ecology Letters"	NA	NA	"Outside controlled experimental plots, the impact of community attributes on primary productivity has rarely been compared to that of individual species. Here, we identified plant species of high importance for productivity (key species) in ¿29,000 diverse grassland communities in the European Alps, and compared their effects with those of community-level measures of functional composition (weighted means, variances, skewness and kurtosis). After accounting for the environment, the five most important key species jointly explained more deviance of productivity than any measure of functional composition alone. Key species were generally tall with high specific leaf areas. By dividing the observations according to distinct habitats, the explanatory power of key species and functional composition increased and key species plant types and functional composition- productivity relationships varied systematically, presumably because of changing interactions and trade-offs between traits. Our results advocate for a careful consideration of species' individual effects on ecosystem functioning in complement to community-level measures."	"25"	NA	"913–925"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ele.13968"	NA	"pubid: QI7uKX5mnFEC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Functional redundancy dampens precipitation change impacts on species-rich invertebrate communities across the Neotropics"	"Céréghino, Régis ; Trzcinski, Mark Kurtis ; MacDonald, A. Andrew M. ; Marino, Nicholas A. C. ; Acosta Mercado, Dimaris ; Leroy, Céline ; Corbara, Bruno ; Romero, Gustavo Q. ; Farjalla, Vinicius F. ; Barberis, Ignacio M. ; Dézerald, Olivier ; Hammill, Edd ; Atwood, Trisha B. ; Piccoli, Gustavo C. O. ; Ospina Bautista, Fabiola ; Carrias, Jean-François ; Leal, Juliana S. ; Montero, Guillermo ; Antiqueira, Pablo A. P. ; Freire, Rodrigo ; Realpe, Emilio ; Amundrud, Sarah L. ; de Omena, Paula M. ; Campos, Alice B. A. ; Srivastava, Diane S."	"Functional Ecology"	NA	NA	"Animal community responses to extreme climate events can be predicted from the functional traits represented within communities. However, it is unclear whether geographic variation in the response of functional community structure to climate change is primarily driven by physiological matching to local conditions (local adaptation hypothesis) or by differences between species pools in functional redundancy (insurance hypothesis). We conducted a coordinated experiment to understand how aquatic invertebrate traits mediate the responses of multitrophic communities to changes in the quantity and evenness of rainfall in 180 natural freshwater microcosms (tank bromeliads) distributed across six sites from 18°N in the Caribbean to 29°S in South America. At each site, we manipulated the mean and dispersion of the daily amount of rainfall that entered tank bromeliads over a 2-month period. Manipulations covered a response surface representing 50% to 200% of the dispersion of daily rainfall crossed with 10% to 300% of the mean amounts of rainfall. The response of functional community structure to precipitation regimes differed across sites. These geographic differences were not consistent with the local adaptation hypothesis, as responses did not correlate with the current amplitude in precipitation. Geographic differences in community responses were consistent with the insurance hypothesis: sites with the lowest functional redundancy in their species pools had the strongest response to a gradient in hydrological variability induced by uneven precipitation. In such sites, an increase in the hydrologic variability induced a shift from communities with both pelagic and benthic traits using both green and brown energy channels to strictly benthic, brown energy communities. Our results predict uneven impacts of precipitation change on community structure and energy channels within communities across Neotropical regions. This geographic variation is due more to differences in the size and redundancy of species pools than to local adaptation. Strategies for climate change adaptation should thus seek to identify and preserve functionally unique species and their habitats."	"36"	NA	"1559–1572"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/1365-2435.14048"	NA	"pubid: OlbiQ0ttILcC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Causal networks of phytoplankton diversity and biomass are modulated by environmental context"	"Chang, Chun-Wei ; Miki, Takeshi ; Ye, Hao ; Souissi, Sami ; Adrian, Rita ; Anneville, Orlane ; Agasild, Helen ; Ban, Syuhei ; Beeri-Shlevin, Yaron ; Chiang, Yin-Ru ; Feuchtmayr, Heidrun ; Gal, Gideon ; Ichise, Satoshi ; Kagami, Maiko ; Kumagai, Michio ; Liu, Xin ; Matsuzaki, Shin-Ichiro S. ; Manca, Marina M. ; Noges, Peeter ; Piscia, Roberta ; Rogora, Michela ; Shiah, Fuh-Kwo ; Thackeray, Stephen J. ; Widdicombe, Claire E. ; Wu, Jiunn-Tzong ; Zohary, Tamar ; Hsieh, Chih-Hao"	"Nature Communications"	NA	NA	"Untangling causal links and feedbacks among biodiversity, ecosystem functioning, and environmental factors is challenging due to their complex and context-dependent interactions (e.g., a nutrient-dependent relationship between diversity and biomass). Consequently, studies that only consider separable, unidirectional effects can produce divergent conclusions and equivocal ecological implications. To address this complexity, we use empirical dynamic modeling to assemble causal networks for 19 natural aquatic ecosystems (N24◦∼N58◦) and quantified strengths of feedbacks among phytoplankton diversity, phytoplankton biomass, and environmental factors. Through a cross-system comparison, we identify macroecological patterns; in more diverse, oligotrophic ecosystems, biodiversity effects are more important than environmental effects (nutrients and temperature) as drivers of biomass. Furthermore, feedback strengths vary with productivity. In warm, productive systems, strong nitrate- mediated feedbacks usually prevail, whereas there are strong, phosphate-mediated feedbacks in cold, less productive systems. Our findings, based on recovered feedbacks, highlight the importance of a network view in future ecosystem management."	"13"	NA	"1140"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41467-022-28761-3"	NA	"pubid: JaLtl8ASYokC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Functional and taxonomic responses of tropical moth communities to deforestation"	"Correa-Carmona, Yenny ; Rougerie, Rodolphe ; Arnal, Pierre ; Ballesteros-Mejia, Liliana ; Beck, Jan ; Dolédec, Sylvain ; Ho, Chris ; Kitching, Ian J. ; Lavelle, Patrick ; Le Clec'h, Solen ; Lopez-Vaamonde, Carlos ; Martins, Marlúcia B. ; Murienne, Jérôme ; Oszwald, Johan ; Ratnasingham, Sujeevan ; Decaëns, Thibaud"	"Insect Conservation and Diversity"	NA	NA	NA	"15"	NA	"236–247"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/icad.12549"	NA	"pubid: TY5xIG7f₂sC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"The foraminiferal response to climate stressors project: Tracking the community response of planktonic foraminifera to historical climate change"	"de Garidel-Thoron, Thibault ; Chaabane, Sonia ; Giraud, Xavier ; Meilland, Julie ; Jonkers, Lukas ; Kucera, Michal ; Brummer, Geert-Jan A. ; Grigoratou, Maria ; Monteiro, Fanny M. ; Greco, Mattia ; Mortyn, P. Graham ; Kuroyanagi, Azumi ; Howa, Hélène ; Beaugrand, Gregory ; Schiebel, Ralf"	"Frontiers in Marine Science"	NA	NA	"Planktonic Foraminifera are ubiquitous marine protozoa inhabiting the upper ocean. During life, they secrete calcareous shells, which accumulate in marine sediments, providing a geological record of past spatial and temporal changes in their community structure. As a result, they provide the opportunity to analyze both current and historical patterns of species distribution and community turnover in this plankton group on a global scale. The FORCIS project aims to unlock this potential by synthesizing a comprehensive global database of abundance and diversity observations of living planktonic Foraminifera in the upper ocean over more than 100 years starting from 1910. The database will allow for unravelling the impact of multiple global-change stressors acting on planktonic Foraminifera in historical times, using an approach that combines statistical analysis of temporal diversity changes in response to environmental changes with numerical modeling of species response based on their ecological traits."	"9"	NA	"827962"	NA	NA	NA	"10.3389/fmars.2022.827962"	NA	NA
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Functionally distinct tree species support long-term productivity in extreme environments"	"Delalandre, Léo ; Gaüzère, Pierre ; Thuiller, Wilfried ; Cadotte, Marc W. ; Mouquet, Nicolas ; Mouillot, David ; Munoz, François ; Denelle, Pierre ; Loiseau, Nicolas ; Morin, Xavier ; Violle, Cyrille"	"Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences"	NA	NA	"Despite evidence of a positive effect of functional diversity on ecosystem productivity, the importance of functionally distinct species (i.e. species that display an original combination of traits) is poorly understood. To investigate how distinct species affect ecosystem productivity, we used a forest-gap model to simulate realistic temperate forest successions along an environmental gradient and measured ecosystem productivity at the end of the successional trajectories. We performed 10 560 simulations with different sets and numbers of species, bearing either distinct or indistinct functional traits, and compared them to random assemblages, to mimic the consequences of a regional loss of species. Long-term ecosystem productivity dropped when distinct species were lost first from the regional pool of species, under the harshest environmental conditions. On the contrary, productivity was more dependent on ordinary species in milder environments. Our findings show that species functional distinctiveness, integrating multiple trait dimensions, can capture species-specific effects on ecosystem productivity. In a context of an environmentally changing world, they highlight the need to investigate the role of distinct species in sustaining ecosystem processes, particularly in extreme environmental conditions."	"289"	NA	"20211694"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1098/rspb.2021.1694"	NA	"pubid: S0CDQJw8Yr4C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"A review of the heterogeneous landscape of biodiversity databases: Opportunities and challenges for a synthesized biodiversity knowledge base"	"Feng, Xiao ; Enquist, Brian J. ; Park, Daniel S. ; Boyle, Brad ; Breshears, David D. ; Gallagher, Rachael V. ; Lien, Aaron ; Newman, Erica A. ; Burger, Joseph R. ; Maitner, Brian S. ; Merow, Cory ; Li, Yaoqi ; Huynh, Kimberly M. ; Ernst, Kacey ; Baldwin, Elizabeth ; Foden, Wendy ; Hannah, Lee ; Jorgensen, Peter M. ; Kraft, Nathan J. B. ; Lovett, Jon C. ; Marquet, Pablo A. ; McGill, Brian J. ; Morueta‐Holme, Naia ; Neves, Danilo M. ; Núñez‐Regueiro, Mauricio M. ; Oliveira‐Filho, Ary T. ; Peet, Robert K. ; Pillet, Michiel ; Roehrdanz, Patrick R. ; Sandel, Brody ; Serra‐Diaz, Josep M. ; Símová, Irena ; Svenning, Jens‐Christian ; Violle, Cyrille ; Weitemier, Trang D. ; Wiser, Susan ; López‐Hoffman, Laura"	"Global Ecology and Biogeography"	NA	NA	"Aim Addressing global environmental challenges requires access to biodiversity data across wide spatial, temporal and taxonomic scales. Availability of such data has increased exponentially recently with the proliferation of biodiversity databases. However, heterogeneous coverage, protocols, and standards have hampered integration among these databases. To stimulate the next stage of data integration, here we present a synthesis of major databases, and investigate (a) how the coverage of databases varies across taxonomy, space, and record type; (b) what degree of integration is present among databases; (c) how integration of databases can increase biodiversity knowledge; and (d) the barriers to database integration. Location Global. Time period Contemporary. Major taxa studied Plants and vertebrates. Methods We reviewed 12 established biodiversity databases that mainly focus on geographic distributions and functional traits at global scale. We synthesized information from these databases to assess the status of their integration and major knowledge gaps and barriers to full integration. We estimated how improved integration can increase the data coverage for terrestrial plants and vertebrates. Results Every database reviewed had a unique focus of data coverage. Exchanges of biodiversity information were common among databases, although not always clearly documented. Functional trait databases were more isolated than those pertaining to species distributions. Variation and potential incompatibility of taxonomic systems used by different databases posed a major barrier to data integration. We found that integration of distribution databases could lead to increased taxonomic coverage that corresponds to 23 years' advancement in data accumulation, and improvement in taxonomic coverage could be as high as 22.4% for trait databases. Main conclusions Rapid increases in biodiversity knowledge can be achieved through the integration of databases, providing the data necessary to address critical environmental challenges. Full integration across databases will require tackling the major impediments to data integration: taxonomic incompatibility, lags in data exchange, barriers to effective data synchronization, and isolation of individual initiatives."	"31"	NA	"1242–1260"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/GEB.13497"	"https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/geb.13497%0Ahttps://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/geb.13497%0Ahttps://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/geb.13497"	"pubid: 1YatL4jblGcC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"High exposure of global tree diversity to human pressure"	"Guo, Wen-Yong ; Serra-Diaz, Josep M. ; Schrodt, Franziska ; Eiserhardt, Wolf L. ; Maitner, Brian S. ; Merow, Cory ; Violle, Cyrille ; Anand, Madhur ; Belluau, Michaël ; Bruun, Hans Henrik ; Byun, Chaeho ; Catford, Jane A. ; Cerabolini, Bruno E. L. ; Chacón-Madrigal, Eduardo ; Ciccarelli, Daniela ; Cornelissen, J. Hans C. ; Dang-Le, Anh Tuan ; de Frutos, Angel ; Dias, Arildo S. ; Giroldo, Aelton B. ; Guo, Kun ; Gutiérrez, Alvaro G. ; Hattingh, Wesley ; He, Tianhua ; Hietz, Peter ; Hough-Snee, Nate ; Jansen, Steven ; Kattge, Jens ; Klein, Tamir ; Komac, Benjamin ; Kraft, Nathan J. B. ; Kramer, Koen ; Lavorel, Sandra ; Lusk, Christopher H. ; Martin, Adam R. ; Mencuccini, Maurizio ; Michaletz, Sean T. ; Minden, Vanessa ; Mori, Akira S. ; Niinemets, Ülo ; Onoda, Yusuke ; Peñuelas, Josep ; Pillar, Valério D. ; Pisek, Jan ; Robroek, Bjorn J. M. ; Schamp, Brandon ; Slot, Martijn ; Sosinski, Ênio Egon ; Soudzilovskaia, Nadejda A. ; Thiffault, Nelson ; van Bodegom, Peter ; van der Plas, Fons ; Wright, Ian J. ; Xu, Wu-Bing ; Zheng, Jingming ; Enquist, Brian J. ; Svenning, Jens-Christian"	"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America"	NA	NA	"Safeguarding Earth's tree diversity is a conservation priority due to the importance of trees for biodiversity and ecosystem functions and services such as carbon sequestration. Here, we improve the foundation for effective conservation of global tree diversity by analyzing a recently developed database of tree species covering 46,752 species. We quantify range protection and anthropogenic pressures for each species and develop conservation priorities across taxonomic, phylogenetic, and functional diversity dimensions. We also assess the effectiveness of several influential proposed conservation prioritization frameworks to protect the top 17% and top 50% of tree priority areas. We find that an average of 50.2% of a tree species' range occurs in 110-km grid cells without any protected areas (PAs), with 6,377 small-range tree species fully unprotected, and that 83% of tree species experience nonnegligible human pressure across their range on average. Protecting high-priority areas for the top 17% and 50% priority thresholds would increase the average protected proportion of each tree species' range to 65.5% and 82.6%, respectively, leaving many fewer species (2,151 and 2,010) completely unprotected. The priority areas identified for trees match well to the Global 200 Ecoregions framework, revealing that priority areas for trees would in large part also optimize protection for terrestrial biodiversity overall. Based on range estimates for ¿46,000 tree species, our findings show that a large proportion of tree species receive limited protection by current PAs and are under substantial human pressure. Improved protection of biodiversity overall would also strongly benefit global tree diversity."	"119"	"25"	"e2026733119"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1073/pnas.2026733119"	NA	NA
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Pulled diversification rates, lineages-through-time plots and modern macroevolutionary modelling"	"Helmstetter, Andrew J ; Glemin, Sylvain ; Käfer, Jos ; Zenil-Ferguson, Rosana ; Sauquet, Hervé ; de Boer, Hugo ; Dagallier, Léo-Paul M. J. ; Mazet, Nathan ; Reboud, Eliette L. ; Couvreur, Thomas L. P. ; Condamine, Fabien L."	"Systematic Biology"	NA	NA	"Estimating time-dependent rates of speciation and extinction from dated phylogenetic trees of extant species (timetrees), and determining how and why they vary, is key to understanding how ecological and evolutionary processes shape biodiversity. Due to an increasing availability of phylogenetic trees, a growing number of process-based methods relying on the birth-death model have been developed in the last decade to address a variety of questions in macroevolution. However, this methodological progress has regularly been criticised such that one may wonder how reliable the estimations of speciation and extinction rates are. In particular, using lineages-through-time (LTT) plots, a recent study (Louca and Pennell, 2020) has shown that there are an infinite number of equally likely diversification scenarios that can generate any timetree. This has led to questioning whether or not diversification rates should be estimated at all. Here we summarize, clarify, and highlight technical considerations on recent findings regarding the capacity of models to disentangle diversification histories. Using simulations we illustrate the characteristics of newly-proposed “pulled rates” and their utility. We recognize that the recent findings are a step forward in understanding the behavior of macroevolutionary modelling, but they in no way suggest we should abandon diversification modelling altogether. On the contrary, the study of macroevolution using phylogenetic trees has never been more exciting and promising than today. We still face important limitations in regard to data availability and methods, but by acknowledging them we can better target our joint efforts as a scientific community."	"71"	NA	"758–773"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1093/sysbio/syab083"	NA	"pubid: 4Wrxgq2JVp0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Labile sex expression in angiosperm species with sex chromosomes"	"Käfer, Jos ; Méndez, Marcos ; Mousset, Sylvain"	"Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences"	NA	NA	"Here, we review the literature on sexual lability in dioecious angiosperm species with well-studied sex chromosomes. We distinguish three types of departures from strict dioecy, concerning either a minority of flowers in some individuals (leakiness) or the entire individual, which can constantly be bisexual or change sex. We found that for only four of the 22 species studied, reports of lability are lacking. The occurrence of lability is only weakly related to sex chromosome characteristics (number of sex-linked genes, age of the non-recombining region). These results contradict the naive idea that lability is an indication of the absence or the recent evolution of sex chromosomes, and thereby contribute to a growing consensus that sex chromosomes do not necessarily fix sex determination once and for all. We discuss some implications of these findings for the evolution of sex chromosomes, and suggest that more species with well-characterized lability should be studied with genomic data and tools. This article is part of the theme issue 'Sex determination and sex chromosome evolution in land plants'."	"377"	"1850"	"20210216"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1098/rstb.2021.0216"	NA	"pubid: zGWyAL6qfKUC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"The aesthetic value of reef fishes is globally mismatched to their conservation priorities"	"Langlois, Juliette ; Guilhaumon, François ; Baletaud, Florian ; Casajus, Nicolas ; de Almeida Braga, Cédric ; Fleuré, Valentine ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Loiseau, Nicolas ; Mouillot, David ; Renoult, Julien P. ; Stahl, Alinéor ; Stuart-Smith, Rick D. ; Tribot, Anne-Sophie ; Mouquet, Nicolas"	"PLoS Biology"	NA	NA	"Reef fishes are closely connected to many human populations, yet their contributions to society are mostly considered through their economic and ecological values. Cultural and intrinsic values of reef fishes to the public can be critical drivers of conservation investment and success, but remain challenging to quantify. Aesthetic value represents one of the most immediate and direct means by which human societies engage with biodiversity, and can be evaluated from species to ecosystems. Here, we provide the aesthetic value of 2,417 ray-finned reef fish species by combining intensive evaluation of photographs of fishes by humans with predicted values from machine learning. We identified important biases in species' aesthetic value relating to evolutionary history, ecological traits, and International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) threat status. The most beautiful fishes are tightly packed into small parts of both the phylogenetic tree and the ecological trait space. In contrast, the less attractive fishes are the most ecologically and evolutionary distinct species and those recognized as threatened. Our study highlights likely important mismatches between potential public support for conservation and the species most in need of this support. It also provides a pathway for scaling-up our understanding of what are both an important nonmaterial facet of biodiversity and a key component of nature's contribution to people, which could help better anticipate consequences of species loss and assist in developing appropriate communication strategies."	"20"	"6"	"1–22"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1371/journal.pbio.3001640"	NA	NA
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"A diversification relay race from Caribbean-Mesoamerica to the Andes: Historical biogeography of Xylophanes hawkmoths"	"Li, Xuankun ; Hamilton, Chris A. ; St Laurent, Ryan ; Ballesteros-Mejia, Liliana ; Markee, Amanda ; Haxaire, Jean ; Rougerie, Rodolphe ; Kitching, Ian J. ; Kawahara, Akito Y."	"Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences"	NA	NA	"The regions of the Andes and Caribbean-Mesoamerica are both hypoth- esized to be the cradle for many Neotropical lineages, but few studies have fully investigated the dynamics and interactions between Neotropical bioregions. The NewWorld hawkmoth genus Xylophanes is the most taxono- mically diverse genus in the Sphingidae, with the highest endemism and richness in the Andes and Caribbean-Mesoamerica. We integrated phyloge- nomic and DNA barcode data and generated the first time-calibrated tree for this genus, covering 93.8% of the species diversity. We used event-based likelihood ancestral area estimation and biogeographic stochastic mapping to examine the speciation and dispersal dynamics of Xylophanes across bior- egions. We also used trait-dependent diversification models to compare speciation and extinction rates of lineages associated with different biore- gions. Our results indicate that Xylophanes originated in Caribbean- Mesoamerica in the Late Miocene, and immediately diverged into five major clades. The current species diversity and distribution of Xylophanes can be explained by two consecutive phases. In the first phase, the highest Xylophanes speciation and emigration rates occurred in the Caribbean- Mesoamerica, and the highest immigration rates occurred in the Andes, whereas in the second phase the highest immigration rates were found in Amazonia, and the Andes had the highest speciation and emigration rates."	"289"	NA	"20212435"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1098/rspb.2021.2435"	NA	"pubid: h-xndbdg2koC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Mitigation strategies to improve reproducibility of poverty estimations from remote sensing images using deep learning"	"Machicao, Jeaneth ; Ben Abbes, Ali ; Meneguzzi, Leandro ; Corrêa, Pedro L. P. ; Specht, Alison ; David, Romain ; Subsol, G. ; Vellenich, Danton ; Devillers, R. ; Stall, Shelley ; Mouquet, Nicolas ; Chaumont, Marc ; Berti-Equille, Laure ; Mouillot, David"	"Earth and Space Science"	NA	NA	NA	"9"	NA	"e2022EA002379"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1029/2022EA002379"	NA	NA
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"A deep-learning method for the prediction of socio-economic indicators from street-view imagery using a case study from Brazil"	"Machicao, Jeaneth ; Specht, Alison ; Vellenich, Danton ; Meneguzzi, Leandro ; David, Romain ; Stall, Shelley ; Ferraz, Katia ; Mabile, Laurence ; O'Brien, Margaret ; Corrêa, Pedro"	"Data Science Journal"	NA	NA	"Socioeconomic indicators are essential to help design and monitor the impact of public policies on society. Such indicators are usually obtained through census data collected at 10-year intervals, which are not only temporally coarse but expensive. Over recent years other ways of collecting data and producing these indicators have been explored, in particular using the new surveillance capabilities that remote observations can provide. The objective of this paper is to evaluate the assessment of socioeconomic indicators using street-view imagery, through a case study conducted in a region of Brazil, the Vale do Ribeira, one of the poorest semi-rural regions in Brazil. In this study we used socioeconomic indicators collected by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) and used Google Street View (GSV) images as our source of remote observations. A pre-trained convolutional neural network (CNN) was used to predict socio-economic indicators from GSV. To evaluate the performance of the classifier, we performed five-fold cross-validation between the predicted indicator and its true value. The best performance was obtained for the highest income class, with 80% of correct prediction. We conclude that the method has the potential to predict socioeconomic indicators across a large area with social challenges such as Vale do Ribeira, and that the network model is general enough to be used even when the imagery dataset is from semi-rural areas. This demonstrates the applicability of GSV datasets for similar settings and perhaps ensuring their replicability, which is a scientific requirement that requires further experimentation/evaluation."	"21"	NA	"1–15"	NA	NA	NA	"10.5334/dsj-2022-006"	NA	"pubid: rp474-M6Y4oC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"mFD: an R package to compute and illustrate the multiple facets of functional diversity"	"Magneville, Camille ; Loiseau, Nicolas ; Albouy, Camille ; Casajus, Nicolas ; Claverie, Thomas ; Escalas, Arthur ; Leprieur, Fabien ; Maire, Eva ; Mouillot, David ; Villéger, Sébastien"	"Ecography"	NA	NA	NA	"44"	NA	"1–15"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ecog.05904"	NA	"pubid: jPVjDSAV6m0C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Leveraging social media and deep learning to detect rare megafauna in video surveys"	"Mannocci, Laura ; Villon, Sébastien ; Chaumont, Marc ; Guellati, Nacim ; Mouquet, Nicolas ; Iovan, Corina ; Vigliola, Laurent ; Mouillot, David"	"Conservation Biology"	NA	NA	"Deep learning has become a key tool for the automated monitoring of animal populations with video surveys. However, obtaining large numbers of images to train such models is a major challenge for rare and elusive species because field video surveys provide few sightings. We designed a method that takes advantage of videos accumulated on social media for training deep-learning models to detect rare megafauna species in the field. We trained convolutional neural networks (CNNs) with social media images and tested them on images collected from field surveys. We applied our method to aerial video surveys of dugongs (Dugong dugon) in New Caledonia (southwestern Pacific). CNNs trained with 1303 social media images yielded 25% false positives and 38% false negatives when tested on independent field video surveys. Incorporating a small number of images from New Caledonia (equivalent to 12% of social media images) in the training data set resulted in a nearly 50% decrease in false negatives. Our results highlight how and the extent to which images collected on social media can offer a solid basis for training deep-learning models for rare megafauna detection and that the incorporation of a few images from the study site further boosts detection accuracy. Our method provides a new generation of deep-learning models that can be used to rapidly and accurately process field video surveys for the monitoring of rare megafauna."	"36"	NA	"e13798"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/cobi.13798"	NA	"pubid: -ZoC36zw86wC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Climate and land‐use driven reorganisation of structure and function in river macroinvertebrate communities"	"Mouton, Théophile L. ; Leprieur, Fabien ; Floury, Mathieu ; Stephenson, Fabrice ; Verburg, Piet ; Tonkin, Jonathan D."	"Ecography"	NA	NA	"Understanding temporal changes in the composition of species communities over spatial and temporal scales relevant to conservation management is crucial for preventing further biodiversity declines. Here, we assessed patterns and potential drivers of taxonomic and functional temporal β diversity over 26 years (1991-2016) of 64 river macroinvertebrate communities, and the length of New Zealand (37°00'N, 46°00'S). We further examined changes in population size and range shifts of species pools, and related these to taxonomy and functional traits. We found increasing climate and land-use driven differences in both the taxonomic and functional composition of communities over time, coupled with poleward species colonisations and increasing extirpations in northern locations. Increases in population and species range size were more prevalent than decreases in population and range size. Species shifted their ranges towards higher latitudes on average by 50 km per decade. Despite little to no relationship with taxonomy, we uncovered distinct relationships between functional traits and population trends and latitudinal species range shifts. Species with a high number of reproductive cycles per year and long-life duration of adults tended to increase their population size, while larger size species with a high number of descendants per reproductive cycle tended to shift their range towards more southern latitudes. Our results suggest that the intensity of disturbances, the geographic location of individuals and communities, and species ecological and functional characteristics, are major determinants of riverine biodiversity reorganisation in the Anthropocene."	"2022"	NA	"e06148"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/ecog.06148"	NA	"pubid: qkm5LKljiV4C"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Spatial mismatch in diversity facets reveals contrasting protection for New Zealand's cetacean biodiversity"	"Mouton, Théophile L. ; Stephenson, Fabrice ; Torres, Leigh G. ; Rayment, Will ; Brough, Tom ; McLean, Matthew ; Tonkin, Jonathan D. ; Albouy, Camille ; Leprieur, Fabien"	"Biological Conservation"	NA	NA	"Cetaceans play key roles in the world's ecosystems and provide important economic and social benefits. New Zealand's Exclusive Economic Zone is a global biodiversity hotspot for cetaceans and benefits from a system of marine protected areas (MPAs). However, spatial patterns of cetacean biodiversity and their overlap with MPAs have never been assessed. We quantify this overlap by using a comprehensive cetacean at-sea sightings database, high-resolution envi- ronmental data layers, and information on ecological and evolutionary characteristics of each species to model spatial patterns of taxonomic, functional, and phylogenetic diversity of cetaceans. We examine areas of congruence among hotspots of richness and uniqueness components of biodiversity and measure the contribution of species to biodiversity. We find that cetacean taxonomic and phylogenetic diversity are spatially mismatched with MPAs, but this is less true for functional diversity. Hotspots of congruence among richness indices are located on the continental shelf break, whereas hotspots of uniqueness indices are located closer to shore on the continental shelf. Seven species have high contributions to biodiversity, with blue whale being the only species being evolutionarily distinct, functionally unique, specialised and globally endangered. Our results underline the potential of multicomponent biodiversity indices, their spatial congruence, and the contribution of species to biodiversity to be used as guides for a strategic placement and expansion of MPAs to protect biodiversity."	"267"	NA	"109484"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1016/j.biocon.2022.109484"	"https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biocon.2022.109484"	"pubid: -cₑYhz9dBkC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"bookSection"	"2022"	"Rethinking and upholding justice and equity in transformative biodiversity governance"	"Pickering, J. ; Coolsaet, Brendan ; Dawson, Neil M. ; Suiseeya, K. ; Inoue, C. ; Lim, M."	NA	"Transforming biodiversity governance"	"Visseren-Hamakers, I. ; Kok, M."	NA	NA	NA	"155–178"	"Cambridge: Cambridge University Press"	NA	NA	NA	NA	NA
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Citizen science: How to extend reciprocal benefits from the project community to the broader socio-ecological system"	"Receveur, Aurore ; Poulet, Lucie ; Dalmas, Benjamin ; Gonçalves, Barbara ; Vernay, Antoine"	"Quantitative Plant Biology"	NA	NA	"Quantitative plant biology is a growing field, thanks to the substantial progress ofmodels and artificial intelligence dealing with big data. However, collecting large enough datasets is not always straightforward. The citizen science approach canmultiply the workforce, hence helping the researchers with data collection and analysis, while also facilitating the spread of scientific knowledgeand methodstovolunteers. The reciprocal benefitsgofar beyond theproject community: By empowering volunteers and increasing the robustness of scientific results, the scientific method spreads to the socio-ecological scale. This review aims to demonstrate that citizen science has a huge potential (i) for science with the development of different tools to collect and analyse much larger datasets, (ii) for volunteers by increasing their involvement in the project governance and (iii) for the socio-ecological system by increasing the share of the knowledge, thanks to a cascade effect and the help of ‘facilitators'."	"3"	NA	"e20"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1017/qpb.2022.16"	NA	NA
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Asynchronous recovery of predators and prey conditions resilience to drought in a neotropical ecosystem"	"Ruiz, Thomas ; Carrias, Jean-François ; Bonhomme, Camille ; Farjalla, Vinicius F ; Jassey, Vincent E J ; Leflaive, Joséphine ; Compin, Arthur ; Leroy, Céline ; Corbara, Bruno ; Srivastava, Diane S ; Céréghino, Régis"	"Scientific Reports"	NA	NA	"The predicted increase in the intensity and frequency of drought events associated with global climate change will impose severe hydrological stress to freshwater ecosystems, potentially altering their structure and function. Unlike freshwater communities' direct response to drought, their post‑drought recovery capacities remain understudied despite being an essential component driving ecosystem resilience. Here we used tank bromeliad as model ecosystem to emulate droughts of different duration and then assess the recovery capacities of ecosystem structure and function. We followed macroinvertebrate predator and prey biomass to characterize the recovery dynamics of trophic structure (i.e. predator–prey biomass ratio) during the post‑drought rewetting phase. We showed that drought significantly affects the trophic structure of macroinvertebrates by reducing the predator– prey biomass ratio. The asynchronous recovery of predator and prey biomass appeared as a critical driver of the post‑drought recovery trajectory of trophic structure. Litter decomposition rate, which is an essential ecosystem function, remained stable after drought events, indicating the presence of compensatory effects between detritivores biomass and detritivores feeding activity. We conclude that, in a context of global change, the asynchrony in post‑drought recovery of different trophic levels may impact the overall drought resilience of small freshwater ecosystems in a more complex way than expected."	"12"	NA	"8392"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41598-022-12537-2"	"https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-12537-2"	NA
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Global patterns of vascular plant alpha diversity"	"Sabatini, Francesco Maria ; Jiménez-Alfaro, Borja ; Jandt, Ute ; Chytry, Milan ; Field, Richard ; Kessler, Michael ; Lenoir, Jonathan ; Schrodt, Franziska ; Wiser, Susan K. ; Arfin Khan, Mohammed A. S. ; Attorre, Fabio ; Cayuela, Luis ; De Sanctis, Michele ; Dengler, Jürgen ; Haider, Sylvia ; Hatim, Mohamed Z. ; Indreica, Adrian ; Jansen, Florian ; Pauchard, Aníbal ; Peet, Robert K. ; Petrik, Petr ; Pillar, Valério D. ; Sandel, Brody ; Schmidt, Marco ; Tang, Zhiyao ; van Bodegom, Peter ; Vassilev, Kiril ; Violle, Cyrille ; Alvarez-Davila, Esteban ; Davidar, Priya ; Dolezal, Jiri ; Hérault, Bruno ; Galán-de-Mera, Antonio ; Jiménez, Jorge ; Kambach, Stephan ; Kepfer-Rojas, Sebastian ; Kreft, Holger ; Lezama, Felipe ; Linares-Palomino, Reynaldo ; Monteagudo Mendoza, Abel ; N'Dja, Justin K. ; Phillips, Oliver L. ; Rivas-Torres, Gonzalo ; Sklenár, Petr ; Speziale, Karina ; Strohbach, Ben J. ; Vásquez Martínez, Rodolfo ; Wang, Hua-Feng ; Wesche, Karsten ; Bruelheide, Helge"	"Nature Communications"	NA	NA	"Global patterns of regional (gamma) plant diversity are relatively well known, but whether these patterns hold for local communities, and the dependence on spatial grain, remain controversial. Using data on 170,272 georeferenced local plant assemblages, we created global maps of alpha diversity (local species richness) for vascular plants at three different spatial grains, for forests and non-forests. We show that alpha diversity is consistently high across grains in some regions (for example, Andean-Amazonian foothills), but regional ‘scaling anomalies' (deviations from the positive correlation) exist elsewhere, particularly in Eurasian temperate forests with disproportionally higher fine-grained richness and many African tropical forests with disproportionally higher coarse-grained richness. The influence of different climatic, topographic and biogeographical variables on alpha diversity also varies across grains. Our multi-grain maps return a nuanced understanding of vascular plant biodiversity patterns that complements classic maps of biodiversity hotspots and will improve predictions of global change effects on biodiversity."	"13"	"1"	"4683"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41467-022-32063-z"	NA	NA
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Biological trade-offs underpin coral reef ecosystem functioning"	"Schiettekatte, Nina M. D. ; Brandl, Simon J. ; Casey, Jordan M. ; Graham, Nicholas A. J. ; Barneche, Diego R. ; Burkepile, Deron E. ; Allgeier, Jacob E. ; Arias-Gonzaléz, Jesús E. ; Edgar, Graham J. ; Ferreira, Carlos E. L. ; Floeter, Sergio R. ; Friedlander, Alan M. ; Green, Alison L. ; Kulbicki, Michel ; Letourneur, Yves ; Luiz, Osmar J. ; Mercière, Alexandre ; Morat, Fabien ; Munsterman, Katrina S. ; Rezende, Enrico L. ; Rodríguez-Zaragoza, Fabian A. ; Stuart-Smith, Rick D. ; Vigliola, Laurent ; Villéger, Sébastien ; Parravicini, Valeriano"	"Nature Ecology & Evolution"	NA	NA	"Human impact increasingly alters global ecosystems, often reducing biodiversity and disrupting the provision of essential eco- system services to humanity. Therefore, preserving ecosystem functioning is a critical challenge of the twenty-first century. Coral reefs are declining worldwide due to the pervasive effects of climate change and intensive fishing, and although research on coral reef ecosystem functioning has gained momentum, most studies rely on simplified proxies, such as fish biomass. This lack of quantitative assessments of multiple process-based ecosystem functions hinders local and regional conservation efforts. Here we combine global coral reef fish community surveys and bioenergetic models to quantify five key ecosystem func- tions mediated by coral reef fishes. We show that functions exhibit critical trade-offs driven by varying community structures, such that no community can maximize all functions. Furthermore, functions are locally dominated by few species, but the iden- tity of dominant species substantially varies at the global scale. In fact, half of the 1,110 species in our dataset are functionally dominant in at least one location. Our results reinforce the need for a nuanced, locally tailored approach to coral reef conserva- tion that considers multiple ecological functions beyond the effect of standing stock biomass. T"	"6"	NA	"701–708"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1038/s41559-022-01710-5"	NA	"pubid: Sf6vrWCRp3YC"
"DAFNEE"	"CESAB"	"journalArticle"	"2022"	"Conservation overstretch and long-term decline of wildlife and tourism in the Central African savannas"	"Scholte, Paul ; Pays, Olivier ; Adam, Saleh ; Chardonnet, Bertrand ; Fritz, Hervé ; Mamang, Jean-Baptiste ; Prins, Herbert H. T. ; Renaud, Pierre-Cyril ; Tadjo, Patrick ; Moritz, Mark"	"Conservation Biology"	NA	NA	"When in 2010 the world's governments pledged to increase protected area coverage to 17% of the world's land surface, several Central African countries had already set aside 25% of their northern savannas for conservation. To evaluate the effectiveness of this commitment, we analyzed the results of 68 multispecies surveys conducted in the 7 main savanna national parks in Central Africa (1960-2017). We also assembled information on potential drivers of large herbivore population trends (rainfall, number of rangers) and on tourist numbers and revenues. In 6 out of the 7 parks, wild large herbivore populations declined dramatically over time, livestock numbers increased severalfold, and tourism, the pillar under a once thriving local wildlife industry, collapsed. Zakouma National Park (Chad) stood out because its large herbivore populations increased, an increase that was positively correlated with rainfall and number of rangers (a proxy for management inputs).With increasing insecurity and declining revenues, governments find themselves confronted with too few resources to protect vast areas. To deal with this conversation overstretch, we propose to extend the repeatedly promoted solutions – scaled up funding, enhanced management–with a strategic retreat, focusing scarce resources on smaller areas to save wildlife in the Central African savannas."	"36"	NA	"e13860"	NA	NA	NA	"10.1111/cobi.13860"	NA	"pubid: gI9wzKcniAoC"
